AMD has added support for its upcoming Zen 5 microarchitecture-based processors to the GCC compiler. Znver5 is now a target in the GCC Git repository until the stable release of GCC 14.1. This move ensures that developers will have the necessary compiler support for Ryzen and EPYC processors based on Zen 5 before their release later this year.
A typical modern Wi-Fi router resembles the flattened head of a horned android with distinctive antennas, but TP-LINK Archer Air R5 is anything but. This is a unique model designed to curb the appetites of perfectionists and those who have little space in their apartment. We appreciated the router’s slim design, conducted several practical tests, and are ready to share our impressions.
At the GTC March 2024 Keynote event, NVIDIA introduced the Blackwell chip architecture and B200 GPUs based on it. The new GPUs with AI capabilities will replace the retiring H100 and H200 in data centers. Grace Blackwell GB200 chips will combine the Grace architecture with Blackwell.
Acer has announced the launch of the new Aspire 3D 15 SpatialLabs Edition laptop in Ukraine. This system is aimed at content creators and gamers. It allows viewing 3D content without using glasses or other additional devices.
In October last year Intel has handed over its Next Unit of Computing (NUC) product line to ASUS. Subsequently, the Republic of Gamers brand announced ROG NUC gaming devices, but there were not many details at the time. Now, the sale of these systems is approaching, which allows us to get acquainted with the characteristics and prices of the ROG NUC 14 model in detail.
The long-awaited «super» series has been replenished with the pre-top MSI RTX 4080 Super Expert, and we are ready to share the test results with you. In addition to the usual benchmarks in desktop programs and games, we tested local neural networks, measured the temperature, noise, and power consumption.
Qualcomm has created a new pre-top level processor. The Snapdragon 8s Gen 3 chip offers flagship features, but its performance is slightly lower than the Snapdragon 8 Gen 3. It is expected to enable more affordable versions of flagship smartphones.
Mark Gurman from Bloomberg, citing his own sources at Apple, writes, that the company is negotiating with Google to integrate the Gemini AI engine into the iPhone. Apple also considered the possibility of using the GPT large language model and held discussions with OpenAI. Apple and Google have been linked by a search partnership for many years — Alphabet paid billions to the iPhone maker every year to have its search engine as a default in the Safari browser. The two sides have not yet decided on the terms of the AI deal or how it will be implemented, Gurman’s sources said.
At the end of last week, some characteristics of the upcoming PlayStation 5 Pro gaming console became known. Now, Insider Gaming has added some new details about this device.
NASA works with the world’s leading technologies and makes important discoveries for humanity However, according to a special report NASA Office of Inspector General, NASA’s supercomputers are outdated and insufficient for the tasks at hand, resulting in mission delays. NASA supercomputers still rely primarily on CPUs.
One of the first prototypes of Steam Machine, the Xi3 Piston mini-PC, was reviewed in detail on the Bringus Studios YouTube channel. This PC of 2013 runs Windows instead of the Linux-based SteamOS operating system. According to Bringus Studios’ tests, the PC that Xi3 later released under the name Piston has mediocre gaming performance, and even at the time it was not very fast. The Xi3 Piston has an AMD Trinity processor and 8 GB of RAM. This chip is called R-464L, but it is actually an analog of the 2012 AMD A10-4600M. But the most interesting part of the computer can be seen not from the inside, but from the outside. This is a combined DisplayPort and HDMI connector.
Website Insider Gaming confirms from its own sources that the PlayStation 5 Pro specifications, which were previously leaked to the Internet via the YouTube channel Moore’s Law is Dead, are a real leak, despite the channel’s criticism, and the release of the PlayStation 5 Pro is focused on the Christmas holidays of 2024.
Ukrainian retailers have opened pre-orders for the latest processor-based MacBook Air M3 (previously received it MacBook Pro), which revealed the prices in hryvnia and the date of the start of sales in Ukraine. We are talking about the official sales of Apple’s new ultra-compact laptops.
Intel has set a new frequency record for a mass-produced desktop processor. The company has introduced the Core i9-14900KS processor, which can reach a regular frequency of up to 6.2 GHz without overclocking, making it the fastest desktop CPU available to consumers. In doing so, Intel has broken its last year’s desktop CPU frequency record of 6.0 GHz.
At the same time, the number of users choosing iOS smartphones has been growing for several years in a row. Rakuten Viber has researched which mobile platforms and smartphone models are most often selected by Ukrainians. The majority traditionally prefers Android phones
Asus has officially unveiled the Zenfone 11 Ultra with a larger 6.78-inch screen than its predecessors, a large 5500 mAh battery, and a price starting at $899.
HONOR Magic V2 folding smartphone is entering the Ukrainian market. It is positioned as a slim solution of this form factor – the world’s first folding smartphone less than a centimeter thick when folded. HONOR Magic V2 smartphone has two screens. The internal OLED screen has a diagonal of 7.92 inches, a resolution of 2344×2156 pixels and a refresh rate of 120 Hz. An additional 6.43-inch external screen has a resolution of 2376×1060 pixels. The titanium hinge can withstand up to 400 thousand bends.
A classic, high-performance laptop for gamers, the Acer Nitro 16 AN16-41 (AN16-41-R86T) pleasantly surprised us not only with its gaming capabilities, but also with its battery life and good IPS display. Of course, there were a few serious compromises, which we will discuss in this detailed review. We tested the laptop in work programs, synthetic tests, video games with different graphics settings, measured temperature, power consumption, battery life, and much more. 
Seasonic has introduced updated 600W graphics card cables for its power supplies, now offering an H++ connector compatible with the PCIe Gen5/ATX3 standard. This connector, also known as 12V-2×6, replaces the original H+ connector (12VHWPR). Seasonic has three versions of this cable specifically for their power supplies, reports Videcardz. They are not intended for use with third-party graphics cards.
The Ukrainian brand HATOR has released an updated version of its flagship mechanical keyboard HATOR Skyfall TKL PRO. It was logically named HATOR Skyfall 2 TKL PRO, with new branded switches, «hot» swap function, etc. After a few weeks of use, we will analyze the pros and cons of the model, determine its tactile properties, convenience in games and when typing, and share our experience of using it and the features of the new product.
Apple’s next generation iPad Pro is expected to be announced in the next few weeks without a separate event. What should we expect from the long-awaited new devices?  iPad Pro 2022 received a minor update that added the M2 processor, Apple Pencil hovering function, as well as specification updates such as Wi-Fi 6E and Bluetooth 5.3. In recent years, the iPad Pro has generally only received relatively minor updates, but the next generation could be the first major update to the product since 2018 that will bring «fundamental changes». MacRumors collected the most important rumors about new devices. Updated, slimmer design. Since 2018, the iPad Pro has maintained the same design for four consecutive generations. Numerous reports indicate that the biggest design change for the new models will be a significant reduction in thickness — from 5.9 mm to 5.1 mm and from 6.4 mm to 5.0 mm, respectively. CAD renders indicate that there will be no other major design changes, but there are vague reports that the device will have a landscape front-facing camera like the 10th generation iPad, which is much more natural for video calls when using the Magic Keyboard.
Insider Kopite7kimi has shared some new details about the upcoming NVIDIA GeForce RTX 50 series graphics cards. Earlier, he claimed that the flagship of this line would receive a 512-bit memory bus, but a few months later this information was denied in favor of information about a 384-bit bus. Now Kopite7kimi is talking about the 512-bit variant again, without going into details. It is likely that NVIDIA is considering different variants of the memory specification, which is why different information from insiders appears. More importantly, Kopite7kimi claims that the new GeForce RTX 50 series will use GDDR7 memory with a bandwidth of 28 Gbps, which is significantly faster than GDDR6X. At the same time, NVIDIA will still have a lot of room for future upgrades, as GDDR7 memory is capable of reaching speeds of over 32 Gbps.
During the Q&A session, dedicated to the Apple Car Bloomberg’s Mark Gurman touched on several other topics, including the fact that Apple has «begun formal development of» a new MacBook Pro with an M4 processor. However, he did not provide any additional details about the yet-to-be-announced chip. Apple introduced the M1 Mac processor in November 2020, followed by the M2 in June 2022, and the M3 chip in late October 2023, i.e. at intervals of about a year and a half. If this trend continues, M4 will be released in the first half of 2025. However, if the interval is reduced to one year, it could be released in late 2024, transmits MacRumors. The last time Apple updated MacBook Pro lineup in October, presenting M3, M3 Pro and M3 Max processors. As part of this update, Apple discontinued the 13-inch MacBook Pro and replaced it with a new base model, the 14-inch MacBook Pro with the M3 chip. Apple has also updated the iMac and MacBook Air with the M3 chip, leaving the Mac mini, Mac Studio, and Mac Pro as the only current-generation computers still equipped with M2 chips.
In the first spring issue of the «PC of the Month» 2024, we will consider the most familiar, classic gaming configurations in the form of the following system units: «Budget», «Optimal», and «Progressive». We have selected the latest components, taking into account the latest changes in the computer technology market.
Samsung has presented new smartphones Galaxy A55 5G and Galaxy A35 5G in Ukraine. Both new products feature a 6.6-inch Super AMOLED display with FHD+ resolution (2340×1080 pixels), 120Hz refresh rate, and support for Vision Booster technology. The more affordable Galaxy A35 5G model has an 8-core processor with a frequency of up to 2.4 GHz. The manufacturer does not disclose in the technical specifications section the name of the chip. According to sammobile, it is the Exynos 1380 SoC. The device is offered in 6+128 GB and 8+256 GB memory configurations. The rear panel has a triple camera. It includes a 50-megapixel main module with optical image stabilization, an 8-megapixel ultra-wide-angle module, and a 5-megapixel macro module. The front camera is based on a 13-megapixel sensor. The device has dimensions of 161.7×78.0x8.2 mm and weighs 209 g. The 5G version of the Galaxy A55 has an 8-core processor with a frequency of up to 2.75 GHz (most likely Exynos 1480). In this case, the amount of RAM is 8 GB, and the storage capacity is offered in 128 or 256 GB versions. A triple main camera is also available here. The main 50-megapixel module with OIS is complemented by a 12-megapixel ultra-wide-angle module and a 5-megapixel macro camera. The front camera has a 32-megapixel sensor. The dimensions are 161.1×77.4×8.2 mm and the weight is 213 g.
Today we’re going to take a look at a brand-new baby with an eSports character — the MSI RTX 3050 VENTUS 2X 6 GB is quite a compromise, but despite its low theoretical performance, it made a good impression. We tested the new product in desktop programs, synthetic tests, video games, and also measured power consumption, noise, and temperature indicators.
The Steam Deck OLED console has shown little burn-in after a 1500-hour stress test conducted by YouTuber Wulff Den. Although 1500 hours or 63 days is a long time, the OLED version of the Steam Deck experienced burn-in much faster than the Switch OLED which, as Wulff Den demonstrated earlier, burned out in about 3500 hours. Since the inception of OLED displays, the problem of image retention, called burn-in, has been critical. However the latest OLED panels have a better design that should reduce the risk of burnout. The YouTuber decided to compare Steam Deck OLED with Switch OLED. Both devices are almost identical at the subpixel level, and the displays may come from the same manufacturer.
In January, Xiaomi introduced POCO X6 Pro to the industry. The new iteration of the «popular» smartphone has an adequate price tag, modern design, and powerful hardware, but as usual, there are nuances with the camera. We’ve already tested the new product, played with it, taken photos, etc., and are finally ready to share our impressions. 
To celebrate the Galaxy Ring’s unveiling at MWC in Barcelona last week, Samsung created an infographic with a complete history of her wearable devices. Samsung’s journey to wearables started back in 1999 with the SPH-WP10 — the world’s first commercial watch. A year later, text input and voice dialing functions were added to the device, while the Watch Phone of 2003 already had a color OLED display. At the same time, the real push to the smartwatch market came in 2013 with the release of the Gear. Since then, Samsung has released several versions, including the Gear S3 in 2016, which secured the company’s second place in the global wearables market in the first quarter of 2017. Over the past two and a half decades, Samsung has continued to improve its wearables. The Galaxy Watch 6 series is the culmination of all these efforts, along with the Galaxy Fit3, and the Galaxy Buds2 Pro is the real champion of the Korean company so far. As for the latter device — smart ring for «better health» Galaxy Ring — then it should be officially presented at the next Samsung Unpacked event, which may take place in early to mid-July in Paris (Galaxy Z Fold6 and Z Flip6 will be presented there). Samsung Vice President Hong Park noted that Galaxy Ring will monitor sleep patterns based on heart rate, movement, and breathing, and provide reports and advice to users. The company will also collect data from Natural Cycles, which already tracks menstrual cycles and ovulation through the Galaxy Watch. 
According to analyst Ming-Chi Kuo, Apple is planning to release a 20-inch MacBook laptop with a folding screen. This will happen in about 3 years. «The only foldable Apple product with a clear development schedule is the 20.3-inch MacBook, which is expected to go into mass production in 2027,» Kuo wrote, without providing any further details. Ming-Chi Kuo is the third source to mention the possibility of a 20-inch MacBook. Earlier, this was reported by display industry analyst Ross Young and Korean website The Elec. The largest laptop Apple currently sells is the 16-inch MacBook Pro. The company also once offered a 17-inch MacBook Pro, which was discontinued in 2012. The new foldable MacBook would have a screen that provides dimensions of approximately 20 inches diagonally when fully deployed. But it is not known what the screen will have when it is minimized.
Microsoft has announced an online presentation of Surface, Windows, and Copilot that will take place in two weeks. The event New era of work will take place on March 21. It is aimed at Microsoft business customers and will feature new devices Surface Pro 10 and Surface Laptop 6 for business, as we reported earlier this week, with a focus on the upcoming AI improvements in Windows 11. The commercial versions of Surface Pro 10 and Surface Laptop 6 will differ in minor specifications. Microsoft will also offer consumers an OLED display on the Surface Pro 10, which the company is expected to reveal later this spring, reports The Verge. The new Surface Laptop 6 could be the most interesting device yet, thanks to a new design that reportedly includes thinner display bezels, rounded corners, a haptic touchpad, and two USB-C and one USB-A ports. Microsoft is rumored to be shipping Intel Core Ultra and Snapdragon X Elite-based Surface models, with the Intel-based models expected in April and the Arm —-based models in June.
This year, Google’s Tensor G4 mobile processor (SoC) will be released, which will be the basis for the Pixel 9, Pixel 9 Pro, and possibly the Pixel Fold 2. New information from Korea confirms previous rumors that the G4 will be manufactured at Samsung’s 4nm fab. The Tensor G4 will have improved heat management and better performance and higher efficiency. It looks like it will be a step up from the G3 in every possible way, transmits GSMArena. Interestingly, the Exynos 2400, which is installed in Samsung’s flagship Galaxy S24 and S24+ (in some markets), will also be produced at the same factory. So far, we can say that Google, and several other major players (including Mark Zuckerberg of Meta and Open AI CEO Sam Altman) are trying to become less dependent on Taiwan’s TSMC, which currently holds about 50% of the market.
Samsung rejuvenated the OLED TV market when its display subsidiary Samsung Display announced QD-OLED technology two years ago. Quantum Dot (QD) OLED panels promised richer colors than LG Display’s white OLED panels (WOLED) and presented a viable competitor to what had become the only option for OLED TVs. Various companies, from Samsung Electronics to Sony, touted the advantages of QD-OLED over WOLED. Today, this has changed. Samsung’s 2024 OLED TV lineup will include TVs with both QD-OLED and WOLED panels. Samsung started doing this last year with the 83-inch S90C. But this year, it will be even more difficult to determine whether Samsung’s new OLED TV has quantum dots, reports Arstechnica. Samsung announced the entry-level S85D, S90D, and flagship S95D models in January without specifying the type of OLED panels. But it’s clear that the S90D will have WOLED panels, as Samsung said it will be available in 42-, 48-, 55-, 65-, 77-, and 83-inch sizes. QD-OLED is not available in 42, 48, or 83 inches.
At the beginning of the year, we already wrote about the new 65% keyboard Varmilo Minilo VXT67 with nice timing, but no software. And before that, it was Varmilo VCS87 Cliff-Bot. Now it’s the turn of the Varmilo VPE87 Chang’e — it’s another dream come true for fans of mechanical keyboards with Asian aesthetics, quick-change switches, and various connection options. We’ve been using this model for several weeks, so we’re ready to draw conclusions, share our impressions, experiences, etc.
The video card market continued its recovery in Q4 of last year. Shipments grew by 6.8% compared to Q3 2023 and by 32% compared to Q4 2022, according to the company’s report Jon Peddie Research. While both Nvidia and AMD increased their sales on a quarterly and year-over-year basis, AMD grew more, and its market share now stands at 19%. While sales of discrete GPUs grew in 2020 and 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, shipments declined sharply in 2022, likely due to a weakening global economy as some countries slipped into recession, transmits Tom’s Hardware. However, 2023 was a year of sales recovery, and Q4 continued this trend, showing a 6.8% increase in shipments. In Q4 2023, the company shipped 32% more discrete GPUs than in Q4 2022.
Research company Canalys has published a report on the state of the smartphone market in the fourth quarter of 2023, broken down by processor vendors. The analysis showed that in the last quarter of last year, Mediatek chips were used in more devices than processors from other suppliers. Compared to the same period last year, Mediatek demonstrated a 21% increase in shipments. Although Mediatek was the leader in terms of the number of chips sold, Apple generated the largest revenue. Smartphones with Apple chips (iPhone only) brought the American company $87 billion, which is 20% more than in the same period last year. Mediatek, Apple, and Qualcomm were the top three mobile chipset vendors on the market, while Huawei-owned HiSilicon generated $7 billion in revenue for 7 million units sold. This means that the Chinese company sold mainly nova 12 and Mate 60 smartphones with Kirin 9000S chips at an average price of $1000. 
However, the Pixel 8a will be more expensive than its predecessor. The price of the Pixel 7a is $499, and the new Pixel 8a model is expected to have a price tag of €569.90, which is approximately $618. The version with increased storage will be even more expensive at €630 (about $684). In this case, the «budget» Pixel 8a will not differ too much in terms of price from the regular Pixel 8 with a price of $699. Although the price may still change. The Pixel 8a will be available in Obsidian (black), Porcelain (beige), Bay (light blue), and Mint (light green) colors. Last year’s Pixel 7a was also available in four colors, but only in the 128GB version. The only option for variety was a version with 5G mmWave support, which is offered by some operators for $50 more. For now, it is said that only the black version of the phone will have a 256GB storage option. Previous leaks have indicated the 8a will have a similar form factor and design to the other already released Pixel 8 phones. It is also likely to get the same Tensor G3 chip and 8 GB of RAM as the Pixel 8. The differences will be in size. The Pixel 8a is rumored to have a 6.1-inch display.
ASUS Republic of Gamers (ROG) has announced the launch of a relatively thin and light gaming laptop ROG Zephyrus G16 (2024) in Ukraine. The device has a new aluminum body and Slash Lighting matrix backlight on the lid. It looks like a diagonally running ribbon and demonstrates customizable animated effects. The new ASUS ROG Zephyrus G16 (2024) can be equipped with a 16-core (22 threads) Intel Core Ultra 7 155H (up to 4.8 GHz) or Core Ultra 9 185H (up to 5.1 GHz) processor, which uses the Intel AI Boost NPU unit. The system also includes up to 32 GB of LPDDR5X-7467 MHz RAM (on the board), two M.2 2280 PCIe 4.0 SSDs with a total capacity of up to 4 TB, and a discrete NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4060, RTX 4070, or RTX 4090 graphics card for laptops.
The mobile phone as a device was invented twice: In 1973, when Martin Cooper called Joel Engel «wirelessly» and in 2007, when Steve Jobs introduced the first Apple iPhone. Since then, the world has never been the same. People are immersed in social networks and endless consumption of video/photo content, all thanks to a large touchscreen made using capacitive technology. After 2007, push-button smartphones became extinct, but in this article (or rather a series of articles) we will not talk about their collapse, but rather about the best of times, about the heyday of mobile technology before the Apple iPhone era. Let’s go back to the years when designers were not afraid of experiments, and technologies surprised every year. Back then, the market was regularly replenished with mobile phones that were imprinted in the memory and became legends. Let’s recall the heyday of such operating systems as Symbian, Windows Mobile, Palm OS, BlackBerry OS, and talk about the best phones and smartphones from 2000 to 2006. Let’s start «digging» with the year 2000, for several good reasons. It was in the third millennium that the development of mobile phones became exponential: no sooner did the phone come out than it became outdated, and every year manufacturers surprised the most demanding techno-fans and the whole world. This is not the case with the progress of wireless phones from 1990 to 2000, where changes were more minor and quite smooth. In the 21st century, cameraphones appeared, color displays became the norm, and smartphones penetrated deeper into the masses. So, in this issue, we will recall the best models of 2000-2001, briefly describing each of them.
Microsoft plans to unveil new Surface devices in late March. Sources familiar with the plans said that the company will unveil the Surface Pro 10 and Surface Laptop 6, which are aimed at business and commercial customers, on March 21. It calls them AI PCs («AI PC»). The devices will be equipped with new Intel Core Ultra or Qualcomm Snapdragon X Elite-based processors that feature the latest neural processors (NPUs) to enhance AI capabilities. They are said to be roughly on par with the iPad Pro and MacBook Pro in terms of efficiency and performance, transmits Engadget. The Surface Pro 10 and Surface Laptop 6 are expected to be among the first devices to support the upcoming Windows 11 AI features. Along with support for the Copilot feature on the device, these features will include live signatures and real-time translations, zooming and upscaling for games, updated Windows Studio effects, and something that (at least for now) is called AI Explorer. The latter feature may be what distinguishes AI computers from ordinary ones. AI Explorer will apparently work in any application and will allow you to search for documents, web pages, images, and chats using natural language. It is believed that this feature will create a history of everything you do on your computer and make it searchable. The tool is able to understand the context and offer tasks based on what is displayed on the screen. AI Explorer is also expected to support text-based image editing. These AI features are likely to come as part of the 24H2 update for Windows 11, which will be released this fall. As for what else we can expect from Microsoft’s next laptops, both are said to have all-day battery life. Surface Pro 10 is expected to have an OLED screen with anti-reflective coating and HDR support. It is rumored to have an ultra-wide-angle webcam on the front and an NFC reader. It is believed that Surface Laptop 6 will receive a more significant redesign compared to its predecessors. In addition to thinner bezels and rounded corners, it is expected to have a tactile touchpad, a dedicated key for Copilot, and an updated port group. It will also be the first Surface Laptop with an Arm processor (in addition to Intel models). The Intel-based versions of Surface Laptop 6 and Surface Pro 10 are expected to ship in April, and the Snapdragon — versions in June.
Nothing has announced the Phone 2A, the company’s third phone, and the first attempt to create a relatively inexpensive device with a «design» approach. The Phone 2A will go on sale starting at €329 for the 8GB RAM and 128GB storage model. The 12GB/256GB version will cost €379. Pre-orders open today, and the device will begin shipping on March 12, transmits The Verge. The Phone 2A is IP54-rated for water and dust resistance and features a 6.7-inch OLED screen with a 120Hz refresh rate, Gorilla Glass 5 protection, and a 1084 x 2412 pixel resolution. It will be powered by a 5000 mAh battery that supports 45W wired charging (no wireless charging). The Phone 2A is powered by a MediaTek Dimensity 7200 Pro processor. The central camera module includes a 50MP main camera with f/1.8 lens and optical stabilization and a 50MP ultra-wide-angle camera with f/2.2 lens. The front camera is 32-megapixel. Three light bars around the rear cameras form the Phone 2A glyph interface to quickly turn off the phone or receive notifications via flashing lights. 
It’s common to see flagship hardware in powerful gaming laptops, but ASUS ROG ZEPHYRUS G16 2024 is nothing like a typical gaming laptop. The slim metal body houses the new Intel Core Ultra 9 185H processor paired with a 16 GB NVIDIA RTX 4090 graphics accelerator. Of course, the dimensions cause serious compromises with performance, but let’s talk about that in order. In addition, we tested the screen color palette, battery life, heat, noise, checked the working and gaming performance, and are ready to share our impressions in this detailed review. 
After the current stocks are exhausted, partners will no longer be able to produce new graphics cards with GPUs based on the Turing architecture. As a result, entry-level devices that do not support ray tracing and DLSS acceleration will soon disappear from the market. These graphics cards were the last models in the GTX series, as NVIDIA has completely switched to the RTX brand. According to NVIDIA’s GPU roadmap, the GTX 16 series was completely discontinued in the first quarter of 2024. Currently, all remaining stocks of GPUs are distributed among manufacturing partners. It is estimated that the remaining stock of GTX 16 series devices on the market will be used up within the next 1-3 months. The GTX 1650 and GTX 1630 were the last models on the market. Now, these graphics cards have joined other devices that have been withdrawn from the market before, including the GTX 16 SUPER. Now the lowest level in NVIDIA’s offer is represented by the RTX 20 series. Technically, this makes the mobile RTX 2050 and desktop RTX 3050 the new entry-level models. Despite the discontinuation of GPUs, NVIDIA continues to support the GTX 16 series through new drivers. In fact, the company is still supporting even the GTX 700 series, so owners of GTX 16 graphics cards will continue to receive driver updates for a long time to come.
Following the updated MacBook Air laptops with M3 processors, Apple has announced new color options for MagSafe silicone iPhone cases and Apple Watch bands. The MagSafe silicone case is now also available in mint, sunshine, blue, and pink colors for $49. Apple Watch bands have also received new colors. Sport Loops are now available in mint and blue. Sport Bands — in mint, sunshine, and light blue. The Solo Loop braided strap has been updated with Sunshine, Light Blue, and Raspberry colors, and the Solo Loop strap is now available in Pink, Mint, and Ocean Blue. All of these Apple Watch bands are now available on the Apple website.
Along with the announcement of new models MacBook Air with M3 chip Apple has stopped selling the MacBook Air version with the M1 processor. This laptop was released in November 2020 as the first Mac based on Apple silicon. At the time, it was a kind of revolution. The MacBook Air with the M1 processor was passively cooled, but it provided higher performance and battery life than Intel-based versions. At the same time, Apple reduced the initial price of the 13-inch MacBook Air with M2 processor by $100. For the first time, the price of this device dropped below $1000. The Cupertino-based company released the 13-inch MacBook Air with the M2 chip in June 2022 at an initial price of $1199, but in June 2023, when the 15-inch MacBook Air with the M2 chip was released, it reduced the price to $1099. The basic configuration includes 8 CPU cores, 8 GPU cores, 8 GB of unified memory, and 256 GB of internal storage. The MacBook Air lineup now consists of a 13-inch MacBook Air with M2 chip starting at $999, a 13-inch MacBook Air with M3 chip starting at $1099, and a 15-inch MacBook Air with M3 chip starting at $1299.
The upcoming Intel Arrow Lake series of processors, expected to be released by the end of this year, will be the first general Intel lineup for desktops, laptops, and mobile devices to feature cores to accelerate artificial intelligence tasks. The transition to Arrow Lake for desktop computers also means a transition to a new computer platform with the LGA-1851 socket. At the same time, these chips will lose support for DDR4 memory. It is also noted that the next generation of client CPUs is likely to be called Core Ultra 200, or as Intel calls it the second generation Core Ultra. Thus, we should not expect the appearance of 15th generation Core chips. Previous rumors that Intel Arrow Lake processors will lose support for hyperthreading are also confirmed. At the same time, the insider claims that the new processors will not have LP (low-power) E-Core cores, as in Meteor Lake chips. However, they will have a neural processing unit NPU, which should provide similar performance to Meteor Lake. The integrated graphics accelerator will have 4 Xe cores and will be labeled as Intel Graphics. In the case of Arrow Lake-S (desktop day), the graphics should be based on the Xe-LPG architecture, while the mobile version will have the Xe-LPG+ architecture.
Apple announced update of the MacBook Air series. Laptops in the old design are now available with a processor Apple M3. This chip was previously reserved for the more powerful MacBook Pro line and the latest iMac models, but now it’s also available in the new 13-inch and 15-inch MacBook Air models. M3 is significantly more powerful than its predecessor, and benchmark tests show a 17% performance boost in single-core tasks and a 21% boost in multi-core tasks. This also applies to the GPU performance, which has increased by about 15 percent compared to the M2, transmits Engadget. Except for the new chip, it’s the same MacBook Air. It looks almost exactly the same as the 2022 model, with the same 13.6-inch screen and a powerful four-speaker speaker system. Likewise, the 15-inch model is essentially identical to the one Apple introduced last summer, except for the M3 upgrade. The 13-inch model comes with 8 GB of RAM as standard. However, the configurator on Apple’s website offers to pay $200 extra for the 16 GB RAM version, and $400 for the 24 GB version. The 15-inch model comes with 16 GB, and you have to pay $200 for an additional 8 GB. Both models are equipped with a 512 GB drive. However, you can order a 1TB and 2TB version. In the traditional increments of $200. There should be new benefits, including, as Apple mentions, support for two external displays when the laptop is closed. The Air 2024 laptop family will also feature Wi-Fi 6E.
Dell executives partially disclosed NVIDIA’s plans to release new devices. It turned out that in 2025, NVIDIA intends to release a new B200 accelerator with high power consumption. Previously, the B200 accelerator was not mentioned in NVIDIA’s roadmap for the past year. It is worth noting that there is a difference between B200 and GB200. NVIDIA has confirmed GB200 as a GPU. At the same time, B200 seems to be the name of an end device. In the 2023 roadmap, the company only mentioned the B100 as a product, but has already introduced the GB200 and GB200NVL GPUs. Although the B200 device has not been officially mentioned by the manufacturer itself, a Dell executive claims that such a product does exist and is expected to hit the market next year.
Apple is working on the fourth generation of the iPhone SE, and with new renders, we have further confirmation that this relatively affordable smartphone will be based on the iPhone 14 model. CAD renders of the new phone published 91mobiles website. According to these reports, the phone will have the body of the iPhone 14 (which is also quite close to the iPhone 13 and iPhone 12), but with a single camera on the back. It is not known whether Apple will keep the outdated 12-megapixel sensor or add a higher resolution camera. Sources confirm that the iPhone SE 4 will have a 6.1-inch OLED display. This is a significant improvement over the 4.7-inch display of the iPhone SE 5G, with a physical button on the front combined with a fingerprint sensor.
The new Intel Core i9-14900KS processor is expected to go on sale around mid-March. However, it is obvious that some retailers are not waiting for the end of the official sales embargo, as photos of the boxes and the processors themselves can already be found online. Core i9-14900KS is a 24-core processor for the LGA1700 platform. It has 8 productive cores (P-Core) and 16 efficient cores (E-Core). The KS suffix stands for Special Edition, which in this case means higher clock speeds and increased power consumption. The new processor will be able to reach 6.2 GHz in automatic overclocking mode (6.0 GHz for the previous top-of-the-line Core i9-14900K model). However, this required an increase in the operating voltage of the chip. The new data shows that Intel Core i9-14900KS needs 1.498 V to reach 6.2 GHz. At the same time, the Processor Base Power has increased from 125 W to 150 W. 
Meta has sent an email to Oculus users informing them that it will delete Oculus accounts on March 29, 2024 and make it impossible to reactivate or receive apps, in-store purchases, store credits, etc. The user will lose their achievements, friends list, and any content created with their Oculus account if they do not switch to a Meta account before then. Oculus accounts have been on their way to being shut down since 2020, when the company, then known as Facebook, started requiring new users to sign up with Facebook accounts. However, in 2022, it added the ability to create a Meta account, offering an alternative to users who did not want to link their Facebook account to the Quest headset, transmits The Verge.
Apple is expected to release several updated models of its devices in the near future, including the iPad Pro and iPad Air tablets, as well as the MacBook Air laptop with the M3 processor. However, it turns out that the company does not seem to be planning to hold a big spring event for announcements. This was reported by Apple expert Mark Gurman. According to him, the company «plans to announce new products on its website through a series of online videos and marketing campaigns». If so, Apple has been skipping the spring event for 2 years in a row, and this year is expected to be especially full of new devices. Whatever the format of the announcements, rumors suggest that they will happen inevitably. Gurman predicts that the new devices will be released either this month or next month. Gurman reports that along with the iPad Pro update and the new 12.9-inch iPad Air, Apple is also planning to announce new Apple Pencil and Magic Keyboard accessories. The MacBook Air laptop with the M3 chip is also expected to be released in 13-inch and 15-inch versions.
Recently it became known that Apple has stopped its decade-long efforts to create its own car codenamed Project Titan —, the tech giant was working on an electric car with autonomous driving functions. But this is not the first time Apple has abandoned projects
The Apple Paladin combined a computer, fax machine, scanner, and telephone all in one product. As you can see in the photo of the prototype, the device had a screen and a handset mount. The project was discontinued in the mid-1990s for unknown reasons.
First introduced in 1993, Apple’s WALT (short for Wizzy Active Lifestyle Telephone) was another combination of devices, this time built around a phone. The unreleased phone had a touch screen, caller ID, internal address book, and stylus. It had access to online banking, handwriting recognition, and customizable ringtones. Only a few prototypes were created before the project was terminated.
The AirPower wireless charger, capable of powering three devices simultaneously, was introduced with the iPhone X in 2017. The launch was scheduled for 2018, but was delayed due to heating issues. The delays caused a lot of speculation about its fate until Apple stopped developing AirPower in 2019. 
Apple introduced the MagSafe line of wireless chargers in 2020. A few years later, images of an unreleased MagSafe product known as the Magic Charger began circulating on the Internet. It was a folding metal stand with an integrated MagSafe puck that allowed charging an iPhone in an upright position. It is unclear what happened to the project, but there are many other MagSafe stands available on the market.
Nextorage has released two new 8TB solid-state drives aimed at gaming systems. The NE1N8TB is a member of the G series. It comes in a standard M.2 2280 form factor and has no heat sink. This drive is designed for computers and notebooks. The NEM-PA8TB, on the other hand, is a member of the NEM-PA series, and is equipped with an aluminum heatsink and is more aimed at PlayStation 5 owners. This version can also be used in desktop systems, but you need to make sure you have enough space for the heatsink. Both drives use an eight-channel controller, 2GB DDR4 DRAM cache, and 1200 MT/s 3D TLC NAND memory chips. Nextorage does not disclose the controller model, but it is likely to be a Phison E18. The NE1N8TB and NEM-PA8TB SSDs support PCIe 4.0 and offer the same speeds: sequential read and write speeds of 7300MB/s and 6600MB/s (6900MB/s for 2TB and 4TB models), respectively. I/O operations per second are up to 900,000 IOPS for reads and 100,000 IOPS for writes. Nextorage backs the NE1N8TB and NEM-PA8TB drives with a 5-year warranty and claims a 10,000 TBW endurance. The Nextorage NEM-PA8TB is available now on Amazon for $849.99. The NE1N8TB version can cost $10-15 cheaper.
HP launched a new subscription service that provides a printer for rent (with a certain page limit) and ink for monthly payments. The company says the service should simplify access to printing for families and small businesses (although the agreement includes monitoring by HP and a multi-year commitment). The cost of the cheapest subscription, which includes an HP Envy printer (current model 6020e) and 20 printed pages, starts at $6.99/month. While the most expensive — renting an HP OfficeJet Pro and 700 printed pages — will cost $35.99/month (unused pages can be rolled over to the next month or additional pages can be ordered in case of a shortage). HP promises to deliver ink when it runs out and provide round-the-clock support by phone or chat. The subscription terms state that service «does not cover damage or malfunctions caused by, but not limited to, the use of non-HP media or other products» or if you use your printer more than your plan allows. HP’s attitude toward the use of third-party ink cartridges has been known for a long time — the company blocked this possibility due to micro-updates of printers for which it received a number of lawsuits. The most interesting aspect of the subscription, which the Ars Technica website drew attention to — Requirement for subscribers to support printer connectivity to the Internet (some users avoid this because the device works fine without internet access). Meanwhile, a lack of connection can prevent the installation of the micro updates we mentioned above. The company explains the requirement by saying that through the Internet it will be able to track details important to the subscription (such as the status of ink cartridges, the number of pages used) and «prevent unauthorized use of your account». The All-In-Plan privacy policy (which is the name of the new subscription) also states that HP may «share information about you with advertising partners» so that they can «recognize your devices», deliver targeted advertising, and potentially «combine information about you with information from other companies» with whom HP works. The policy also states that users can opt out of sharing personal information. Another important detail — HP will charge subscribers who cancel their subscription before the end date up to $270 plus taxes (however, the «penalty» will not apply after two years of subscription and returning the leased printer and cartridges within 10 days of cancellation).
The HDMI Forum, the licensing group that oversees the HDMI standard, has notified AMD that it does not allow open source implementations of the HDMI 2.1 (or HDMI 2.1+) specification, blocking tools such as AMD’s FreeSync from working over HDMI connections at resolution/frequency combinations such as 4K at 120Hz or 5K at 240Hz. This can be a problem for Linux users in terms of getting the highest resolution image to the highest frame rate display, at least when it comes to HDMI connections. In January 2021, the Linux blog Phoronix noted that the HDMI Forum does not offer public access to the HDMI 2.1 specification. Alex Deucher, an AMD engineer who has been involved in the development of the company’s open source offerings for a long time, has been maintaining the thread for at least two years and has now reported a negative result, transmits ArsTechnica. In February 2023, Deucher reported that «is working with our [AMD] legal team to figure out what we can do while still meeting our obligations to the HDMI Forum». Two months later, he reported that AMD had launched «with core functionality, now we have to go through each feature with the legal department and determine if we can disclose them without violating our obligations to». The summer and fall of 2023 passed and the legal due diligence was still ongoing, and in October the decision was «in the hands of the HDMI Forum».
Apple’s FineWoven cases for the iPhone 15 have already received several waves of criticism from users, but this time their poor quality has been noted by one of the world’s largest retailers. It turns out that they are so bad that Amazon had to add a warning label — «frequently returned» to FineWoven’s pages. The warning label appears in the product listings for all FineWoven cases from Apple for the iPhone 15, transmits 9to5mac. Apple Watch accessory options and FineWoven MagSafe Wallets do not yet have such a warning. Products that are often returned. Check out product details and customer reviews to learn more about this product.
The Raspberry Pi microcomputer is 12 years old. The first device was released on February 29, 2012 and had an initial run of 10 thousand units. But as demand outstripped supply, more were produced later. Since then, 57 million Raspberry Pi computers and 4 million Raspberry Pi Pico microcontrollers have been sold. According to Raspberry Pi CEO Eben Upton, the best-selling models were the Raspberry Pi 3 boards. The Raspberry Pi 3B/3A+ and 3B+, released between 2016 and 2018, sold 23 million units, approximately 37.7% of total sales. The Raspberry Pi 4 version, released in 2019, was the longest-lasting flagship model, although this was largely due to the pandemic and global chip shortages. From 2019 to the end of 2023, the Pi 4 reigned supreme, followed by the Raspberry Pi 5. The total sales of Raspberry Pi Pico (Pico, Pico W, Pico H, and Pico WH), which cost about $4, do not include the RP2040 system-on-a-chip, which costs $1. 
Immediately after Samsung Galaxy Fold6 design publications it was the turn of its smaller «brother» Flip6. Its design has also become known to the public thanks to OnLeaks and SmartPrix. The likely date of the presentation is in July. The overall form factor of the device is similar to last year’s Flip5including a 6.7-inch internal folding display and a 3.4-inch external screen. However, its thickness may increase from 6.9 mm to 7.4 mm, which raises speculation about what the additional internal space could be used for. The most popular theory comes from last year’s GalaxyClub report, which said that the Flip6’s battery capacity could increase from 3,700 mAh to 4,000 mAh, transmits The Verge. Other rumored specs include a Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 processor and the return of the dual camera. SmartPrix reports that the modules will again have a resolution of 12 megapixels. Samsung has previously been said to be testing a 50MP primary camera in the Flip6, but it’s unclear if it will make it into the final device. The available colors will include light purple and mint green.
ASUS has announced the launch of the Zenbook DUO (2024), an ultraportable laptop equipped with two 14-inch OLED touchscreens with up to 3K resolution and 120Hz refresh rate. With a detachable full-size Bluetooth keyboard, this device offers a variety of uses. According to the manufacturer, the Zenbook DUO is an Intel Evo Edition notebook, which means «unrivaled mobility» in a lightweight 1.35 kg body. Two full-size ASUS Lumina OLED displays with up to 3K resolution, 120Hz refresh rate and 16:10 aspect ratio are connected by a hinge with an opening angle of up to 180°. This allows you to expand your workspace by turning the displays into a single 19.8-inch monitor that can be used in vertical and horizontal orientations in multiple modes – laptop, dual-screen, desktop, collaboration – using ASUS ScreenXpert software. The keyboard with a built-in battery can be detached to fully utilize the visual workspace, or placed on the bottom display to turn it into a regular laptop work panel. The ASUS Zenbook DUO laptop available in Ukraine is equipped with a Bluetooth keyboard that has only Ukrainian and English layouts. The Zenbook DUO features an Intel processor up to Core Ultra 9 with an integrated neural processor for accelerated AI computing, 32GB of LPDDR5x memory, up to 2TB of PCIe 4.0 SSD, a 75Wh battery, and a Harman Kardon-certified Dolby Atmos audio system. Availability and price. ASUS Zenbook DUO (2024) with Intel Core Ultra 9 185H processor, 32 GB of LPDDR5X RAM and 2 TB SSD is available at a recommended price of UAH 108,499. The device is available for purchase in the official ASUS Ukraine online store, as well as from the company’s partners in Ukraine. 
Dozens of ads for renting an Apple headset have appeared on Chinese websites such as Xianyu and Zhuan Zhuan Alibaba Group Holding, according to South China Morning Post. The Vision Pro is currently officially available only in Apple stores in the US for $3500, while rental prices in China start at $13 per hour to $200 per day. Some ads require a deposit of at least $4,000, while others — offer the option to purchase the device after the rental. Beijing-based virtual reality startup Vision Space, which also rents the Vision Pro, says one of its stores received more than 10,000 orders after the device hit the U.S. market, and people were subsequently lining up to use it. Despite the fact that Apple CEO Tim Cook said that the headset «will be available in China soon — the exact date of its appearance is still unknown. However, it is likely that the business of headset rental companies will face problems, as the company itself offers 30-minute demonstrations in its stores. Meanwhile, in Ukraine, prices for «gray» Apple Vision Pro have started to decline — there were offers cheaper than UAH 170 thousand.
At the end of 2023, Tecno released the Spark 20 Pro, an affordable smartphone. We have already received the new product, spent several weeks with it, tested it, took pictures, played with it, etc. I can say right away that the phone is worthy for the money and is a serious competitor to other popular budget models. And all the details, as always, are in the review below. Pluses: modern design; IP53 protection; large package; well-known, powerful (for the segment) and cold chip; a large amount of RAM and built-in memory; it is possible to add virtual memory; 108 megapixel camera; 32 megapixel front camera with separate backlight; 120 Hz screen; stylish software with wide customization options and functions; there is NFC; there is fast charging 33 W; there is stereo sound and support for many audio codecs and DTS. Minuses: faded IPS screen, and most competitors have brighter AMOLED; mediocre battery life; someone will definitely not like the design a la Apple and large protruding modules; lack of any image stabilization when shooting.
You can test the Honda vehicle at the upcoming SXSW conference in Texas. The chair was named UNI-ONE, designed specifically for mixed reality entertainment — a technology that combines the real and virtual worlds to create new environments and visualizations. The UNI-ONE is hands-free — just tilt your torso in a specific direction to move forward, backward or diagonally. The chair has a seat that can be adjusted to suit your needs and can support a passenger weighing up to 110 kg. The vehicle is battery-powered and has a maximum speed of 6 km/h. Honda’s idea is to combine the chair with a mixed reality device so that passengers can comfortably play games or experience other entertainment — including outdoors (for example, participating in racing games in theme parks).
Apple is gradually abandoning the Lightning connector and switching to USB-C after The European Union forced it to do so. Many accessories, iPads, and even iPhones now use USB-C, the AirPods Max headphones are still stuck with Lightning. However, engineer Ken Pillonell (who implemented USB-C in the iPhone and AirPods before Apple) installed a USB-C connector on the headphones and is now selling a kit so that everyone can do the same. Pillonel found that it was easy to knock out the Lightning connector and leave a hole that was the perfect size for USB-C. He then designed a special PCB and found the right connector to make it work. Pillonel managed to charge AirPods Max via USB-C on the first try. Unfortunately, wired USB-C audio is not possible with this modification. Pillonel notes that this requires a chip from Apple’s own adapter, which costs $35, transmits Engadget. The AirPods Max are three years old now, and they are likely due for an update. Any future model will likely have a USB-C connector to comply with EU regulations. However, if you want to work with your existing headphones (or maybe even replace a broken Lightning connector), you can download the circuit and buy all the other necessary parts. Everything is listed in the description of Pillonel’s YouTube video. In addition, you can buy set in the Pillonel store.
Samsung introduced a new generation of microSD memory cards. The company has started testing the memory card microSD SD Express 256 GB card with a sequential read speed of up to 800 MB/s, and announced the start of mass production of 1 TB UHS-1 cards. According to Samsung, the company is the first in the industry to introduce a new high-performance microSD card based on the SD Express interface. The development was the result of successful cooperation with a customer to create a customized product. With its low-power design, embedded software, high performance optimization, and temperature management, the Samsung SD Express microSD card in a small form factor delivers performance equivalent to some SSDs. While most traditional UHS-1-based microSD cards are limited to 104MB/s read speeds, the SD Express has managed to boost this to 985MB/s, a speed that has not been commercially available until now. With sequential read speeds of up to 800MB/s— 1.4 times faster than SATA SSDs (up to 560MB/s) and more than four times faster than traditional UHS-1 memory cards (up to 200MB/s), Samsung’s SD Express microSD card will help speed up applications on PCs and mobile devices. To ensure consistent performance and reliability in a small form factor, Dynamic Thermal Guard (DTG) technology maintains optimal temperature even during extended usage sessions. Samsung’s new 1TB microSD card features eight levels of 8th Generation V-NAND for a total capacity of 1TB, realizing performance previously only possible with SSDs. The new 1TB microSD card «passes the industry’s most rigorous testing» and is protected against water, extreme temperatures, drops, wear and tear, X-rays, and magnetic fields. The claimed protection is valid only for the 1TB UHS-1 microSD card (not for the 256GB SD Express microSD card). It provides for a depth of immersion of 1 meter in salt water for up to 72 hours. Operating temperatures — -25℃ to 85℃), non-operating temperatures — -40℃ to 85℃. The card can withstand standard airport X-ray machines (up to 100 mGy). The magnetic field is equivalent to a powerful MRI scanner (up to 15,000 Gs). The product can withstand drops from a height of up to 5 m and up to 10,000 card changes. A 256GB microSD SD Express card will be available for purchase later in 2024, and a 1TB microSD UHS-1 card will be released in the third quarter of this year.
We’ve found that many users complain of eye fatigue and dryness after using Vision Pro. It’s a statement that’s hard to believe, since people often complain of tired or dry eyes after using various gadgets. Saini says that these are all temporary symptoms — probably caused by people simply not blinking often enough. As for symptoms such as dizziness and nausea, the doctor says they are caused by viewing images in motion, which send the same signals to the brain as you do when you move in life. Eye fatigue (or eyestrain) can be caused by what’s called a conflict between vergence and accommodation. In the real world, when you look at an object, the focal point and the physical distance to that object are the same — but in virtual reality, depth is simulated, so the distance of your eye to the physical screen and the object you are focusing on in the virtual world may not match, leading to eye muscle fatigue. As for the claims of redness and hemorrhaging in the eyes, Saini says they are not dangerous. As a rule, so-called subconjunctival hemorrhages — are harmless and heal on their own. They can be caused by rapid changes in pressure (such as sneezing or coughing), which can lead to bursting of capillaries in the eyes, or by eye trauma. Most VR headset manufacturers warn that their devices are not intended for children under 13 — partly because they are not designed for small bodies, but also because children’s eyes are still developing. For example Meta Quest compliance page It is noted that «children’s bodies are generally less developed, so their eyes, neck, back, and strength do not yet allow them to use Meta Quest comfortably or safely». This is despite the fact that there is no conclusive evidence or enough research to say that using the headset negatively affects children’s vision. But even if headsets do not pose a threat to vision, it does not mean that they cannot hurt the eyes. Manufacturers also offer some tips for comfortable use — on Apple Vision Pro support page recommend using the device with breaks every 20–30 minutes at the beginning of work. Meta says the same thing, adding that experts advise limiting the use of headsets to 2 hours a day. Saini suggests following the 20-20-20 method: take a 20-second break every 20 minutes and look 20 feet (ca. 6 m) into the distance. And if all else fails, you can always buy eye drops. 
During the MWC 2024 exhibition, Nothing provided another small portion of information about its upcoming smartphone Phone 2(a). This time, the company demonstrated the device and introduced its design to the public. The appearance of the smartphone reflects the Nothing design philosophy. The back panel of the device has a characteristic Glyph light, albeit on a smaller scale. You can also see that the camera module is centered at the top of the back panel. The camera unit became one of the key design elements. Below it are design elements reminiscent of roller coaster turns. The transparent back panel has rounded edges. So when you look at the phone from the side, you can see some of the internal parts. Nothing Phone 2(a) will be a more affordable version of the Phone 2, which cost $599. Previous rumors claimed that the new smartphone would cost about €400 in Europe. The cost will be reduced by using a cheaper processor manufactured by MediaTek.
During the Intel Foundry Direct Connect event, the company announced that it plans to launch production/development of the Intel 10A node (1nm analog) at the end of 2027. At the same time, production based on the 14A (1.4 nm) node is scheduled for 2026. The company is also working on creating fully autonomous AI-based fabs in the future. The slide shows the share of silicon wafers the company plans to use for chip manufacturing based on different production processes. In its previous announcements, Intel did not specify a start date for its upcoming 14A node, but has now announced that it will begin production in 2026. More importantly, Intel will begin production/development of its yet-to-be-announced 10A node in late 2027. The suffix A in Intel’s node naming stands for angstrom (a unit of length equal to 10-m or one ten-millionth of a millimeter), and 10 angstroms translate into 1 nm, meaning it is the company’s first 1nm node. Intel did not provide any details about the 10A node, but said that it should deliver double-digit power/performance improvements. The improvement over the 14A node is expected to be 14-15%. Intel plans to aggressively increase its Foveros, EMIB, SIP, and HBI package production capacity. This will ensure a constant supply of advanced processors with complex packaging, including HBM. At the same time, the company intends to expand its operations. In addition to the existing production facilities, Intel plans to invest $100 billion in expansion and new production sites over the next 5 years. Geographically distributed production facilities will allow Intel to have global redundancy of its operations, as well as offer its customers the opportunity to use a supply chain entirely located in America. It is also noted that the company relies heavily on the automation of its production facilities. Intel is now planning to use artificial intelligence in all segments of its production flows, from capacity planning and forecasting to increasing product yields and actual production operations. The timeframe for such changes is not specified, but they should affect every aspect of the company’s operations in the future. This includes the introduction of AI «Cobots» (collaborative robots that can work together with humans) and widespread robotic automation in the production process. 
China’s Honor is working on a smart ring, the company’s CEO George Zhao said the day after Samsung officially announced its Galaxy Ring. Samsung Galaxy Ring is the company’s first attempt in this product category. The device has several sensors that can track health markers like the wearer’s heart rate.
Huawei has released an updated version of its quite popular Watch Fit fitness watch, but added the prefix SE- Special Edition to the name. Although the Huawei Watch Fit SE looks almost the same as the three-year-old model, it has updated sensors, features, and capabilities. We have been testing this fitness bracelet for several weeks, so now we are ready to share our impressions and experience. Pluses: compact and ultra-lightweight body; moisture protection; bright and detailed AMOLED screen; Always-On Display function; adequate step measurement accuracy; 100+ sports modes; a large amount of tracked data; good battery life; fast charging; adequate price/quality/capabilities ratio. Minuses: some people will find the design too inconspicuous, or, conversely, too bright for a fitness tracker; difficulties with replacing the strap; no speaker and microphone.
Samsung is not preparing to launch its new foldable phones until July or August. But already now, a leak has shown a design similar to the final Galaxy Fold6. The device measures 153.5 x 132.5 x 6.1 mm when unfolded. This makes it slightly shorter but noticeably wider than the Galaxy Fold5 (154.94 x 129.8 x 6 mm). The larger width in the expanded format suggests that the screen will also be wider. Other notable details gleaned from these images include the volume buttons and power button (presumably serving as a fingerprint scanner) on the right side, speakers on the top and bottom, and a USB-C port on the bottom.
It has long been rumored that Meta is working on smart augmented reality glasses. It seems that this year we will finally be able to see them. Business Insider cites Meta sources and claims that the company plans to showcase a pair of «real» smart augmented reality glasses this fall at Meta Connect. The glasses are internally named Orion. They are a separate product from the recently released Ray-Ban Meta Smart Glasses and Meta Quest headsets. The publication also reveals that Meta is under a lot of internal pressure to have a high-quality demo, and some company insiders have been experimenting with advanced prototypes. Nevertheless, it seems that Orion glasses are not yet ready to be demonstrated to the public. Business Insider says that even if the glasses are demonstrated at Meta Connect, they will not be available to the general public. Last year, it was reported that the company was planning an «internal» launch of the glasses in 2024, with a public release scheduled for 2027. It is likely that by this time, we will see the third generation of Ray-Ban smart glasses (in 2025), which will receive a «neural interface strip» as an input device. Most likely, the demonstration will be a means of drawing public attention to what is to come in the future. 
The Anker brand offers a new model of wireless over-ear headphones SoundCore H30i. When developing this model, engineers focused on people who constantly use headphones for personal or work purposes. The headset weighs 183 g, has soft leather removable ear cushions, an ergonomic headband and a folding design. The SoundCore H30i headphones are equipped with 40mm drivers and a battery that provides up to 70 hours of battery life. With fast charging support, just 5 minutes of recharging can restore the power reserve so that the headset can work for 4 hours. The headset uses Bluetooth 5.3 wireless interface to connect to audio sources. The headset can be used both for listening to music and for communication during calls. Thanks to the Soundcore application, the user can customize their own equalizer settings.
From the beginning, Sony considered niche as one of the key advantages of the $200 PlayStation Portal. Now the company is extremely pleased with the sales and high demand for the portable device, which was created as a complement to PS5, not an alternative to PSP or PS Vita. These and other interesting details were revealed by Sony’s Vice President of Product Management. PlayStation Portal — a gadget for streaming games from PS5, which is, de facto, a modification of DualSense, which was supplemented with an 8-inch display with a resolution of 1080p and a refresh rate of 60 Hz. You can’t run games on it via the «cloud» — only transfer a picture from the PS5. This, as well as the lack of support for Bluetooth accessories, makes PlayStation Portal lose out to full-fledged portables such as Steam Deck and ASUS ROG Ally. Despite the peculiarities and contradictory assessments of specialized MEDIA and ordinary consumers, at the start of sales in November 2013, the entire first batch of PlayStation Portal quickly sold out, and it surprised many people at the time. On the other hand, Sony did not share production plans or detail the size of the first batch. In a conversation with Stephen Totilo, the Sony executive touched upon the success of PlayStation Portal for the first time and at the same time communicated the positioning of the device, which has never claimed to be an alternative to PSP or PS Vita. Ms. Hiromi Wakai demand for PlayStation Portal «continues to exceed expectations» Sony —it is currently difficult to buy the new product, as most stores have run out of the gadget. At the same time, the Sony executive refused to give exact sales figures. «While we can’t share exact figures, demand continues to exceed our expectations», — Totilo quotes Wakai as saying. The Sony vice president also said that the reaction to the announcement was as the company expected — the device has always been seen as a niche device and was intended for users with specific needs. Moreover, even before the start of sales, Sony clearly understood that not everyone would appreciate the Portal’s special niche. From the very beginning, it was designed to be the simplest and most convenient gadget companion that would not require additional efforts from developers. The key goal, according to Hiromi Wakai, is to extend the capabilities of the PS5 (to provide «quality console experience» on a portable screen and without the need to be directly in front of the console), not to completely replace it. 
Acer has announced the launch of three new models of Connect wireless routers in Ukraine, which are sold under the Acer Vero and Predator brands. The new Acer Predator Connect W6 and Vero Connect W6 routers support tri-band (2.4 GHz/5 GHz/6 GHz) Wi-Fi 6E connection and provide up to 7.8 Gbps of bandwidth. At the same time, the Predator Connect W6d model uses dual-band Wi-Fi 6 technology. The routers are equipped with a 2 GHz quad-core MediaTek A53 processor, 1 GB of LPDDR RAM, and 4 GB of storage. The new products can be connected to up to four devices. The coverage area is up to 465 m2 in a mesh network with two mesh devices and up to 930 m2 in a system with four mesh devices. The Predator Connect W6 and Predator Connect W6d feature a set of color-coded LED indicators that show signal strength. This provides greater visibility and allows you to adjust the position of the antennas for the most efficient signal reception and transmission. Acer Connect Vero W6m has a minimalist design. To ensure security, Predator models have a built-in Trend Micro Home Security Engine solution for the entire life cycle. Additionally, it is noted that Acer Connect Vero W6m is the first device to be tested for compliance with EU cybersecurity standards EN 303 645 (RED).
An incredibly affordable controller with a dual mode, good battery life, and lightning-fast connectivity – GamePro MG650 doesn’t claim to be the best, but it’s a great value for the money. We tested the gamepad in synthetic programs, video games, evaluated the ergonomics, and looked for advantages and disadvantages. The GamePro MG650 comes with a controller, a micro USB cable, and a radio receiver. The size of the latter is tiny, but this does not prevent it from picking up the signal well, as we will discuss later. There is no smartphone mount, because the model is not positioned by the manufacturer as a mobile gamepad. A nice bonus is the manual in Ukrainian (only in Ukrainian). It is clear from the box that GamePro MG650 was made specifically for the Ukrainian market, as we did not find even a single inscription in russian. The instruction is as simple as possible, because GamePro MG650 has a minimum number of operating modes, which will be its advantage and disadvantage at the same time, but more on that below. The main thing is that even an elderly person or a child who has never picked up such a device will have no trouble figuring out how to connect it. 
Samsung Electronics announced a new high-bandwidth memory chip that has the «highest capacity» in the industry. The South Korean giant claims that the HBM3E 12H «increases performance by more than 50%». AI service providers are increasingly requiring HBMs with higher capacity, and our new HBM3E 12H product was developed to meet this need. This new memory solution is part of our commitment to develop core technologies for high-stack HBMs and provide technology leadership in the high-capacity storage market in the AI era. Samsung Electronics is the world’s largest manufacturer of dynamic random access memory chips used in consumer devices such as smartphones and computers. Generative AI models, such as OpenAI’s ChatGPT, require a large number of high-performance memory chips. They enable generative AI models to remember details of past conversations and user preferences to generate human-like responses. Samsung reported that it has already started providing samples to customers, and mass production of the HBM3E 12H is scheduled for the first half of 2024. In September, Samsung signed a deal to supply Nvidia with its high-bandwidth memory chips, transmits CNBC. The HBM3E 12H has a 12-layer stack, but uses an advanced heat-compression non-conductive film that enables 12-layer products to be as tall as 8-layer products to meet current HBM packaging requirements. The result is a chip that contains more capacity in the same physical dimensions.
Along with presentation of the global versions of Xiaomi 14 and 14 Ultra smartphones The Chinese company also introduced several other mobile devices.
The Xiaomi Pad 6S Pro tablet has entered global markets along with smartphones. It features a 12.4-inch IPS display with a 12-bit matrix, 3048×2032 pixel resolution, 144Hz refresh rate, HDR10, Dolby Vision, and 900 nits of peak brightness. The device has a Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 processor, 8 or 12 GB of RAM, 256 or 512 GB of internal storage. The battery capacity is 10000 mAh. It supports 120 W fast charging. The tablet has 6 speakers at once. The price of Xiaomi Pad 6S Pro 12.4 starts at €700. In addition to this device, you can buy a keyboard (€170) and a stylus (€100).
Xiaomi Watch 2 smartwatch has an aluminum case and a water resistance rating of 5 ATM. The device is equipped with a 1.43-inch AMOLED display with a resolution of 466×466 pixels. The watch features a Snapdragon W5+ Gen 1 processor, sensors for heart rate and SpO2 monitoring, and a GPS module. The device runs on Wear OS. The price of Xiaomi Watch 2 is €200.
Xiaomi Watch S3 smartwatch was also launched on the global market. Despite the general similarities with the Xiaomi Watch 2 and Watch 2 Pro, this model does not use Google Wear OS but is based on the HyperOS platform, which means that it does not have apps that can be downloaded to expand its functionality. The watch is made in an aluminum case and has a 1.43-inch AMOLED display with a resolution of 466×466 pixels. There are also sensors for measuring heart rate and SpO2, but there is no GPS module. The price of Xiaomi Watch S3 is €150.
The Band 8 Pro fitness tracker is also entering the global market. Compared to its predecessor, this model has a larger 1.74-inch AMOLED display with higher brightness and resolution. It is also reported to have 5 ATM water protection, heart rate and SpO2 sensors, GPS and NFC modules. Autonomy reaches 14 days on a single charge. The recommended retail price of Xiaomi Band 8 Pro is €70.
At MWC, Tecno not only announced the Pova 6 Pro gaming smartphone, but also expanded its product range beyond the smartphone industry. In Barcelona, the company presented Pocket Go, a wireless augmented reality gaming set, and Dynamic 1, a robotic dog.
Tecno Pova 6 Pro is equipped with a 6nm Dimensity 6080 chip and 8 or 12 GB of RAM. The chip is octa-core: two productive Cortex-A76 cores with a clock speed of 2.4 GHz and six Cortex-A55 cores with a clock speed of 2.0 GHz. Mali-G57 MC2 is responsible for graphics processing, transmits GSMArena. Pova 6 Pro has a 6.78-inch FHD+ AMOLED display with a refresh rate of 120 Hz and a large 6000 mAh battery (1000 mAh more than its predecessor) with support for 70W charging and 10W reverse charging. The Pova 6 Pro has a translucent design with two color options (Meteorite Gray or Comet Green), which Tecno calls Dynamic-Tech Design. Under the transparent back panel of the phone is a texture that replicates the electronics of a smartphone and a series of LEDs called Dynamic-Light Effect. There are 210 LEDs in total and 9 lighting modes with 101 user-defined effects to choose from. On the back of Tecno Pova 6 Pro are three cameras, the main one — 108MP, which provides 3x zoom (and up to 10x digital zoom). Other modules include a 2-megapixel depth sensor and an AI camera. The front has a 32-megapixel front camera with its own LED flash
Tecno Pocket Go — is a portable console running on the Windows operating system and designed to work with a pair of AR glasses — a new and unprecedented combination. The headset is equipped with a 0.71-inch microOLED screen, which should provide the effect of a 215-inch TV from a distance of six meters. The console itself is essentially inside a gamepad similar in layout to an Xbox controller. Tecno has claimed an 8-core 16-thread processor with a frequency of up to 5.1 GHz. It also has a cooling fan and three copper tubes for heat dissipation, as well as a replaceable battery. The glasses are called AR Pocket Vision and feature a six-axis gyroscope with an artificial intelligence algorithm that detects head movements.
The design of this robot is supposed to resemble a German shepherd dog. Its goal is to *provide smart home entertainment, assistance, education, and training. Tecno said it is «the ideal home companion of the future». The Dynamic 1 has a torque of 45 Nm/kg, and the dog can easily climb stairs, bow and give a paw. The HyperSense Fusion System artificial intelligence system and Intel Real Sense D430 depth camera allow it to recognize and avoid obstacles. The robot is equipped with an 8-core Arm processor, the name of which has not been specified. The dog has 64 GB of storage, Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth 5.2, and can be controlled via a smartphone app, as well as supporting remote control and voice commands. The Dynamic 1 has a 15,000 mAh battery for 90 minutes of operation and can be replaced and charged separately to minimize downtime.
Samsung has finally presented its smart ring at the Mobile World Conference 2024 and revealed some additional features. Galaxy Ring rendering for the first time were shown at the Galaxy Unpacked event last month — and at that time it was only known that the smart ring was primarily intended to monitor the health and well-being of the user. At today’s presentation, the device was not allowed to be photographed (although Samsung provided a few additional shots), but it was reported that it will be available in three colors (platinum-silver, gold, and black) when it arrives in stores later in 2024. The ring will also be offered in several sizes — which will determine the size of the battery (and thus the time between charges), ranging from 14.5 mAh to 21.5 mAh. The battery life is unknown, but for example, competitive Oura can work up to seven days between charges. Samsung Vice President Hong Park notes that the Galaxy Ring will monitor sleep patterns based on heart rate, movement, and breathing, and provide reports and advice to users. The company will also collect data from Natural Cycles, which already tracks menstrual cycles and ovulation via Galaxy Watch. The Galaxy Ring will be part of the Samsung Health ecosystem and is compatible with the Galaxy Watch — so you can use the devices simultaneously and get more accurate data. At the same time, the smart ring has some advantages over the watch — at least in that it is more comfortable to sleep with. The exact set of sensors, price, and launch date are to be announced in the coming months. Galaxy Ring will be compatible only with Samsung Galaxy phones, although the company plans to integrate it with other Android devices later. Compatibility with iOS is still being determined. 
A slim, elegant, well-built, quiet, and beautiful gaming laptop sounds fantastic, but let’s take the Lenovo Legion Slim 7 as an example to see if it’s possible. Of course, the slim design has brought serious compromises, so let’s talk not only about the advantages of the device, but also about the main problems. We tested the laptop in work tasks, video games, measured battery life, noise, heating, evaluated the quality of the display, camera, ergonomics, and other key functional components. Pluses: high-quality aluminum case; almost identical performance from the battery and power supply; efficient cooling system and moderate noise level; excellent ergonomics, interfaces; good display. Minuses: low performance per one hryvnia compared to «fatter» gaming models; power reduction by 45-50 W under load due to trotting; considerable cost despite the lack of licensed Windows in the package;
At MWC 2024, Xiaomi unveiled the global versions of its flagship smartphones Xiaomi 14 and 14 Ultra. The Chinese announcement of these devices took place a little earlier. The smaller version of Xiaomi 14 has a 6.36-inch LTPO display with a refresh rate of 120 Hz and a resolution of 2670×1200 pixels. At the same time, the Xiaomi 14 Ultra version has a 6.73-inch panel with a 1440p resolution and a 120Hz refresh rate. In both cases, the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 processor is used. The amount of RAM starts at 12 GB, and the built-in storage capacity starts at 256 GB. The battery capacity in the standard model is 4610 mAh, and in the Ultra version it is 5300 mAh. Xiaomi’s new flagships are focused on photography, so the most interesting thing about them is the camera modules. The main camera of the Xiaomi 14 Ultra is based on the Sony LYT-900 inch sensor and includes the variable aperture system introduced on the Xiaomi 14 Pro. It allows you to change the aperture value in the range between f/1.63 and f/4.0 with 1024 aperture steps. According to journalists from The Verge, who attended a demonstration of this system, it does close the aperture. However, even in the most open state, the camera provides a depth of field comparable to full-frame cameras at f/4.0. The 14 Ultra features two telephoto modules with 3.2x and 5x zoom. In both cases, an image stabilization system is available. The camera supports video recording in the Log profile and 10-bit HDR in Log. For smartphones, you can use an optional grip that makes the device look like a compact camera. Additionally, this accessory can be used as an external battery. The main camera of the Xiaomi 14 is based on three 50-megapixel sensors, which are used in the main, ultra-wide-angle and telephoto (3.2x) modules. The new Xiaomi 14 and 14 Ultra smartphones are already available for pre-order in global markets (excluding the US) at a price of €999 and €1499, respectively. In Ukraine, the Xiaomi 14 model in the 12/512 GB memory configuration is already available for UAH 44999 (during the first week, the preferential price is UAH 39999). The Xiaomi 14 Ultra version will go on sale in Ukraine at the end of March. 
Almost five years ago Energizer was trying to sell a smartphone, or rather a power bank with 18,000 mAh with a built-in phone. Now, Avenir Telecom (which owns the Energizer brand) has done it again, only this time they’ve put the smartphone in a 28,000 mAh battery. This is what is called progress. The device itself is called the Hard Case P28K, and like its predecessor, it will be sold under the Energizer brand. The company claims that the P28K’s battery is enough to last for a full week of regular use. The device is also IP69-rated tough enough to withstand any off-grid adventures you might want to take part in while away from a charging point. The talk time is 122 hours (or just over five days) and the standby time is 2252 hours—, which is almost 94 days, transmits The Verge. The downside is the absolute size. With a thickness of 27.8 mm and a weight of 570 g, the Hard Case P28K is more than three times the thickness and weight of the iPhone 15. It can be quickly charged with up to 33 watts, but the rest of the characteristics are more relevant to entry-level or mid-range smartphones. There’s no 5G, but a MediaTek MT6789 processor —, 8GB of RAM, 256GB of storage, a trio of rear cameras, Android 14, and a 6.78-inch 1080p LCD display. Avenir Telecom plans to sell the Energizer Hard Case P28K for €249.99 when it goes on sale in October this year 
At MWC 2024, Lenovo presented Project Crystal — a laptop with a transparent screen (for some reason, they are popular in sci-fi movies) and a touch panel instead of a keyboard. The manufacturer also showed a line of more traditional ThinkPad and ThinkBook computers, but with a key for calling Microsoft Copilot artificial intelligence that is fashionable today. The company also offered Smart Connect software, developed together with Motorola, which should make it easier to manage tasks across devices. 
Lenovo’s Project Crystal — is probably the world’s first laptop with a transparent microLED display, which is an example of science fiction coming true. There are currently no plans to turn Project Crystal into a retail product. Instead, Lenovo’s latest concept device was commissioned by the ThinkPad division to explore the potential of transparent microLED panels and artificial intelligence integration. The most obvious use case would be to share information somewhere, such as a doctor’s office or hotel reception. Instead of turning the screen, you can use software to allow anyone on the other side to see it. In combination with the camera built into the back of the system, Lenovo says that augmented reality applications are possible. One example would be using the camera to identify an object, similar to Google Lens. And thanks to the transparent display, this idea can be developed further by overlaying a diagram or schematic on the object to troubleshoot or repair it, transmits Engadget. At first glance, the transparency effect is surprising. When closed or when the display is off, the Project Crystal screen looks almost like a regular piece of glass with a slight brown tint. But in a moment, it flashes like a Russian warship. The nominal brightness reaches 1000 nits, and Lenovo claims that peak values can reach 3000 nits, making it brighter than the new Galaxy S24. And despite the fact that the panel consists of several layers, it is thin, which helps to blur the line between the digital and analog worlds. Lenovo says it’s also considering adding some sort of contrast layer to turn it into a traditional opaque display at the touch of a button. However, for a relatively large 16-inch display, its resolution is not very high, so if you look closely, you can see individual pixels. Another design trick is that instead of a traditional keyboard, the Project Crystal is equipped with a touchpad similar to those used on older Yoga Books. It suffers from many of the same problems. The most obvious example of this is that hands drift while typing because there is no tactile feedback, resulting in reduced accuracy. Lenovo claims that in the future, AI will be able to solve this problem by learning human habits and then using this information to account for hand deviations from the initial line. But for now, it still remains a problem.
Lenovo is calling the updates to the ThinkPad T series and ThinkBook line «computers with artificial intelligence» because they all feature a special Microsoft Copilot button that provides instant access to the digital assistant. Among the announced models are — ThinkPad T14 Gen 5, ThinkPad T16 Gen 3, ThinkPad X12 Detachable Gen 2, and ThinkBook 14 «2 in 1» Gen 4. These computers are equipped with new Intel Core Ultra processors. The ThinkPad X12 Detachable Gen 2 boasts a sturdy 3:2 display with Corning Gorilla Glass and an Intel Core Ultra U processor. This tablet/laptop hybrid can be equipped with up to 32GB of RAM. The detachable backlit keyboard boasts a three-button trackpad, and the tablet is equipped with a 5-megapixel front-facing camera and an 8-megapixel rear-facing camera. The updated ThinkBook 14 «2 in 1» Gen 4 has an ultra-thin profile with a thickness of 16.85 mm, which is slightly thinner than the previous generation. It weighs about 1.6 kg. The 14-inch display has a 16:10 aspect ratio, and the keyboard unit — has a larger touchpad made of Mylar glass-like material, transmits Engadget. It also comes with a new Magnetic Slim Pen for thinner touchscreen control. The ThinkPad T14 Gen 5 will go on sale in April this year and will be available in several variants starting at $950. The ThinkPad T16 Gen 3 will also go on sale in April this year at a price starting at $1220. The ThinkPad X12 Detachable Gen 2 will be available in the same month with a starting price of $1,400. Finally, the ThinkBook 14 «2 in 1» Gen 4 will go on sale in March this year at a starting price of $1170. 
A new cross-device management tool called Smart Connect should allow users to easily switch tasks from one device to another. For example, you can transfer a podcast from your phone to your tablet using just a swipe gesture, or easily share files between connected devices using the unified Share Hub. The companies have not yet released the full list of compatible devices, but so far, Smart Connect will work with Lenovo PCs running Windows 10 or later and only some Lenovo tablets and Motorola devices. Smart Connect will allow you to switch between multiple devices with a single keyboard and mouse without interruption and receive synchronized notifications from all connected devices. It also offers a smart clipboard feature for all connected devices, so you can copy and paste items from one device to another. Smart Connect will also allow users to turn their phone into a hotspot for a connected tablet or PC, or use it as a webcam. Users will also be able to stream content from their phones to other connected devices, for example, to watch videos on a big screen. Smart Connect will be available in a few months on the Microsoft Store and Google Play Store.
According to a report by Mark Gurman of Bloomberg, Apple’s future plans for wearables may include smart glasses with artificial intelligence and AirPods with cameras. Both concepts are at the «exploratory stage». The smart glasses will reportedly be equipped with many sensors, AI functions, and powerful batteries. Despite the fact that the device looks like a cheaper wearable gadget for the head (compared to Vision Pro), it is not positioned as a computer with augmented reality and high-quality transparent displays. Instead, Gurman compares Apple’s idea to Ray-Ban by Meta, which have a camera and an AI assistant but no display. Apple also reportedly started looking into camera-equipped AirPods last year, under the codename B798. They are likely to have the same dimensions as the current version — but will be equipped with low-resolution cameras and will also use artificial intelligence to help users with their daily routines. Gurman also mentions Apple’s long-standing plans for a smart ring, which still have their supporters in Cupertino, but are not in active development.
Human Mobile Devices, known as HMD, is working with Mattel to launch a Barbie flip phone and a smartphone under the HMD brand. Earlier, the company announced the HMD Fusion strategy — the development of new smartphones with various partners. No prices, specifications or features of the Barbie phone, which has not yet been officially named, have been announced. It is known that it will be a traditional flip phone, not a smartphone — according to the company itself: «Smartphones are loved because they offer a digital detox solution in a world where nearly four in ten (38%) young people aged 16-24 are concerned about spending too much time with their smartphones. In the United States alone, one-third of millennials are actively trying to limit their time on social media, and their fear of missing out (FOMO) is gradually decreasing. The demand for push-button phones is growing as young people decide to limit the time spent on smartphones for the sake of their mental health. The so-called «screenagers» have appeared on TikTok, and their hashtag #bringbackflipphones has garnered 60.2 million views». As for the own-brand phone, the company hasn’t announced any details yet, but it is known that it will also appear this summer. The company also says that it plans to «bring back the iconic phone this summer», possibly another Nokia. 
The modern market is oversaturated with a choice of products. That’s why we decided to come to the rescue and compiled the top gaming mouse in 2024. We have selected the best models for various game genres and any budget. What criteria to consider when choosing a gaming mouse? Every player wants to get the most out of their «tame rodent». Manufacturers offer many different options, among which the main ones are: Shape and weight; Connection type (wired, wireless, combined); Availability of additional buttons; Quality and characteristics of the sensor; Other components; Price. To have a clear understanding of what your future gaming mouse will be like, you need to understand what tasks it should perform. It depends on what games you play. The above characteristics may differ from this. But it will all come down to your budget. 
There’s no single answer to the question of which mouse is the most comfortable. Everyone has different hands, and everyone has to choose the shape and weight that suits them. There is no one type of mouse for everyone! Ultra-lightweight mice that weigh 60-70 grams are gaining popularity. Such devices are chosen by professional players, because when you spend long hours at the computer, you need to surround yourself with comfortable devices that will not exhaust you. On the other hand, heavy mice (90+ grams) usually have more settings, including a larger number of buttons (such mice will be useful for those who use many macros). In addition, some heavy mice have additional «weights» that make the rodent even heavier. But the choice of mouse shape is a higher priority. If you look at any mouse manufacturer, they offer us several shapes. Let’s take a look at Razer: asymmetrical and ergonomic, narrow and symmetrical, large, heavy, but has many additional buttons, ergonomic and asymmetrical with a comfortable place for the thumb.
Palm grip: One of the most popular types, in which your hand rests entirely on the surface of the mouse. Its popularity is explained by the natural positioning of the hand. These mice are usually quite large and ergonomic. Although they are comfortable, they are not suitable for people who need maximum precision. Fingernail grip: In this type of grip, the hand forms an arc, reducing the number of points of contact with the mouse. Such mice are slightly shorter than traditional palm grip mice, which makes for more precise movements. Such mice are popular among RTS players. Fingertip grip: this type is quite rare. Manipulators designed for fingertip grip are lightweight, have a very shortened body, and a subtle curve.
This top list will focus exclusively on optical gaming mice, which are optimal for gamers and have proven themselves. Among the advantages of this type are their variability and a wide range of DPI settings (a standard used to measure the sensitivity of a mouse, expressed as a measurement of dots per 1 inch (2.54 cm) that the device can perceive).
But what DPI values do we need to realize that this mouse is a worthy choice? For normal use, 3200 DPI is enough. But those who like to play games should choose multi-range mice. Some models have a range of up to 16,000 DPI and even more. Therefore, it is best to choose a mouse with a maximum value of 8000 DPI. It’s also worth noting that users who spend hours playing games, especially shooters, often set the mouse to 400-800 DPI to ensure clarity.
Polling rate: determines how many times the mouse checks the cursor position in 1 second. Measured in Hz, optimally 500-1000 Hz. Acceleration: Measures the amount the mouse can withstand before the sensor breaks. The optimal value is 20 g. IPS: The maximum speed at which the sensor can read its location. The optimal value is 200-220 IPS. 
Today’s review is about a TV, but not just any TV, it’s a TV for kids. Let’s take a look at Kivi KidsTV — a 32-inch Full HD model with a body that can be used to mount a construction set, a shockproof screen, a built-in nightlight, and more. We have been testing this new product for several weeks and are now ready to share our experience, tests, and impressions. Pluses: design that children like; unusual body with grooves for children's construction sets; adequate image with HDR support; screen is protected by tempered glass; Low Blue Light function; built-in night light; Smart TV with built-in convenient Kivi applications; good sound; convenient and medium-sized remote control. Minuses: the screen does not display true black, but only dark gray, because it is not Mini LED; you need to get used to the important volume buttons in the «swing» format; mediocre hardware. 
TV type; Matrix type; Screen diagonal; Type of backlight; Screen resolution; Screen scanning frequency; Processor; Graphics; RAM; Built-in memory; Bluetooth; Smart TV; Image enhancement technology; Additionally; Packaging and equipment;
Xiaomi has a new flagship smartphone. Announced in China, the Xiaomi 14 Ultra has a number of interesting photographic features, including a main camera with a large inch sensor (specifically, Sony LYT-900) and a variable aperture of 1024 stops ranging from f/1.63 to f/4.0. Prices start at 6,499 yen (about $904) for 12 GB of RAM and 256 GB of storage, and go up to 7,799 yen (about $1,084) for 16 GB of RAM and 1 TB of storage when the phone goes on sale on February 27. There is also a special titanium model that will cost 8,799 yen (about $1,224). The international launch of the phone is not long away. Xiaomi CEO Lei Jun said that the phone will appear at the company’s presentation at the Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona, where it will be presented alongside Xiaomi 14 and 14 Pro, which was launched in China in October last year, transmits The Verge. Emphasizing the phone’s photographic capabilities, Xiaomi is bringing back a special photography kit for the 14 Ultra that adds a pen and shutter button to the phone. The pen connects via USB-C and contains an additional 1500 mAh battery and customizable controls that can be used to adjust aperture, shutter speed, or ISO. But the accessory is not as important as what happens inside the phone, where, in addition to the main 50-megapixel sensor, there are three additional 50-megapixel cameras: a telephoto with 3.2x optical zoom, a periscope with 5x optical zoom, and an ultra-wide-angle camera with a field of view of 122 degrees. These cameras are housed in a large round protrusion, rather than a square one like the 14 and 14 Pro. Like the 14 and 14 Pro, the 14 Ultra is also powered by Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3and its screen has the same specifications as the 14 Pro: 6.73-inch diagonal, 1440p resolution, maximum refresh rate, and peak brightness of 120 Hz and 3,000 nits, respectively. The device is protected against dust and water to the IP68 standard. Where the 14 Ultra really has an advantage over the 14 Pro is in battery capacity. It is 5300 mAh, not 4880 mAh, although surprisingly, the maximum fast charging power — is 90 watts, not 120 watts, as in the 14 Pro. The 14 Ultra can also be charged wirelessly at up to 80W. 
Sony, following Google, Apple, Microsoft, and many others, has taken a step towards a password-free future — PlayStation owners have been given the opportunity to log in to their PSN accounts using Passkeys Sony now allows sign into your PlayStation account without a password and testing PSVR 2 support for PC, which should eventually completely replace classic passwords and less secure two-factor authentication (2FA) technology. What access keys are and why they are — have been described repeatedly in previous texts (1 and 2). It is a simple alternative to passwords that allows you to securely log in using your own device — using your fingerprint, face recognition or PIN to unlock the screen. The key benefits of the technology are — convenience (no need to remember long and complex passwords), speed (authorization is faster than with a password), increased security (access keys are stored locally and synchronized between devices via a cloud service) and resistance to phishing attacks. Microsoft has opened general access to fully passwordless authentication, including for Xbox owners, at the end of 2021, in the fall of 2023, Nintendo added support for access keys, and now PlayStation has caught up with the competition. To create and use an access key to log in to PSN, you need to activate the function in your account settings in the Security section.
Today we are reviewing a new product from Anker: Anker SoundCore Space One full-size wireless headphones with improved ergonomics, flexible noise cancellation settings, completely redesigned drivers, and enhanced functionality. Let’s take a closer look at the model’s capabilities and talk about the experience of using it in everyday life. Packaging and equipment.  The headphones are delivered in a dense cardboard package with color printing, which contains an image of the model and information about its features and basic characteristics.
Google has told suppliers to start manufacturing its Pixel smartphones in India no earlier than next quarter, as part of its plan to ship more than 10 million Pixel phones this year. Last October, Google said that will start production of smartphones in India and its flagship smartphone Pixel 8 will be available there in 2024 as it focuses on a key growth market. The move will also help Google diversify its supply chain away from China, transmits Reuters. The tech giant will prepare production lines for its flagship Pixel 8 Pro smartphones in the coming weeks and will start producing the phones in April-June, the report said, citing familiar with the matter sources. The report does not say how many phones Google plans to produce in India, nor whether these smartphones will be sold in the country or exported.
The relatively new Intel Foundry division has received an important order from a large company, namely Microsoft. CEO Satya Nadella has announced that his company will use Intel’s latest 18A (1.8 nm) process technology for future in-house chip development. But given Intel’s process roadmap, this means that we are not likely to see a new Microsoft chip until 2025. Although neither company has disclosed the nature of the silicon in question, Microsoft has unveiled its own server chips Azure Maia AI Accelerator and Azure Cobalt 100 CPU last November, with an expected rollout sometime early this year. Cobalt 100 is based on Arm’s architecture, and Intel happened to optimize its 18A process for Arm’s design since April last year (it even became an investor in Arm later), so there is a good chance that this collaboration could lead to the next generation Cobalt processor, transmits Engadget. In addition to the usual efficiency gains from shrinking the node size, the Intel 18A also offers an «industry-first backplane power solution» that separates the power interconnect layer from the data interconnect layer at the top and moves the former below the silicon substrate. This allows for better voltage regulation and reduced resistance, resulting in faster logic and lower power consumption, especially in 3D stacking. During Intel’s Q4 financial results call, CEO Pat Gelsinger reiterated expectations that «18A will reach production readiness in the second half of ’24». Given that Intel’s own 18A-based processors — Clearwater Forest for servers and Panther Lake for clients — won’t be available until 2025, this is likely to be the timeframe for Microsoft’s chip as well.
In this article, we will review the best gaming monitors in Ukraine in the form of ten models from ten well-known brands. Only Quad HD 2560×1440 models with a high refresh rate were taken into account, keeping the price range under UAH 10,000. It can be considered that 2K is the golden mean for a modern gamer. It is this resolution that has become a kind of new standard for 2024, despite the considerable popularity of Full HD. 
It is still unknown when Apple Vision Pro will appear in official retailers, so the ball is in the court of «gray» sellers who bring the «technology of the future» closer as best they can. Sales of Vision Pro in the United States started on February 2, 2024. The United States is still the only country where Vision Pro can be bought officially: prices start at $3499 (excluding taxes) for the minimum 256 GB of storage, the 512 GB version costs $3699, and 1 TB — $3899. The gadgets are currently being imported to Ukraine and other countries by resellers, who, of course, charge a hefty markup. At the same time, prices for Apple Vision Pro in Ukraine have gone down over the past week. 
Acer has introduced new Acer Swift Edge 16 and Acer Swift Go 14 laptop models with AMD Ryzen 8040 processors and AMD Radeon 780M graphics card (in the most expensive versions), as well as intelligent neural processors to improve performance and support Acer’s AI features such as Acer PurifiedVoice, Acer PurfiedView, and the new Acer LiveArt photo editor. With a single press of the dedicated Copilot button, you can call up the intelligent AI assistant to optimize your work or content creation time using AI capabilities. Acer’s AI-powered solutions, such as Acer PurifiedView and Acer PurifiedVoice, are designed to enhance video conferencing, while Acer QuickPanel provides quick access to video calling tools. AcerSense helps you monitor your device systems with the touch of an AcerSense key, and the new Acer LiveArt feature uses AI to quickly edit images through a control panel that appears as soon as an image or screenshot is transferred to the device.
The Acer Swift Edge 16 portable laptop (12.95 mm thick and weighing 1.23 kg) is made of magnesium-aluminum. The computing capabilities are provided by an octa-core AMD Ryzen 7 8840U processor integrated with AMD Radeon 780M and AMD Ryzen AI graphics cards, and will be supported by up to 32 GB of LPDDR5 RAM and a 2 TB PCIe 4.0 SSD for data storage. The Swift Edge 16’s 16-inch 3.2K OLED display offers a 120Hz refresh rate. Thin bezel, <0.2 ms response time and VESA DisplayHDR certification True Black 500 further contributes to the clarity of the OLED panel. The speed and reliability of the connection should be ensured by Wi-Fi 7 technology, which in theory provides high network speeds of up to 5.8 Gbps and a minimum delay of < 2 ms. For added convenience, the Swift Edge 16 is equipped with a full set of necessary connectors, including an HDMI 2.1 port, two USB Type-C connectors (supporting 40 Gbps USB4, DisplayPort and USB charging) and two USB Type-A connectors, as well as a MicroSD slot. 
The Acer Swift Go 14 is equipped with an octa-core AMD Ryzen 9 8945HS processor and an AMD Radeon 780M graphics card. The laptop has up to 32 GB of LPDDR5X RAM and a PCIe Gen 4 SSD drive up to 2 TB. The 14-inch 2.8K OLED display has a refresh rate of 90 Hz. Slim and lightweight aluminum body can be opened 180 degreeso and a 44% larger OceanGlass touch panel, according to the developers, will make it easier to work and scroll through pages. The Swift Go 14 also has a whole host of productivity tools: a QHD 1440p webcam, a 100W fast-charging battery, Wi-Fi 6E support and basic connectivity features; two USB Type-C ports that also support USB4, DisplayPort and USB and HDMI 2.1 charging, Bluetooth 5.3 and a MicroSD card.
Insider Kamila Wojciechowska has shared new details about the upcoming Google Pixel 8A smartphone. This device is expected to have a display with a 120 Hz refresh rate (compared to 90 Hz in the Pixel 7A) and a higher brightness. Wojciechowska claims that the next model in the Pixel line of budget phones will have 1400 nits of peak brightness, compared to 1000 nits in the 7A, as well as limited support for DisplayPort output via USB-C. At the same time, the camera is not expected to improve, as it is said that Google will carry over last year’s cameras to the 8A. Previous leaks suggested that the Pixel 8A will feature updated rounded corners like the Pixel 8 and a Tensor G3 chip. The smartphone will retain the 6.1-inch display size of the 7A. Wojciechowska’s new post confirms these previous leaks. The Pixel 8A is also said to have 256 GB of internal storage. Taken together, all these changes are rumored to make the Pixel 8A look like a smaller and cheaper version of the Pixel 8. Google gave the Pixel 8 version access to fewer AI features than the Pixel 8 Pro. Wojciechowska says that the Tensor G3 processor in the new 8A will be hotter than the G3 that powers the Pixel 8. This raises the question of how many AI features will be available to owners of the cheaper phone. Won’t it turn out that the more affordable Pixel 8A will be a more interesting purchase than the standard Pixel 8? As expected, the official announcement of the Pixel 8A smartphone will take place during the Google I/O 2024 conference scheduled for May 14.
Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang said that the company plans to sell its Blackwell GPU accelerator for artificial intelligence and HPC workloads at $30-40 thousand. However, this is an approximate price, as Nvidia is more inclined to sell the entire stack of data center components, not just the GPU accelerator itself. The performance of the Blackwell-based Nvidia B200 accelerator with 192 GB of HBM3E memory is undoubtedly impressive. But these figures are achieved thanks to the design of a chipset with chips containing 204 billion transistors (104 billion per chip). This solution will cost significantly more than a single-chip GH100 accelerator with 80 GB of memory. According to Raymond James analysts, each H100 costs about $3100, while each B200 should cost about $6000. Developing the GB200 was not cheap, and Nvidia’s costs for modern GPU architecture and design exceed $10 bln, according to the company’s CEO. Last year, Nvidia partners were selling H100s for $30-40 thousand when demand for these accelerators was at its peak and supply was limited by TSMC’s production capacity. It is worth keeping in mind that Nvidia does not really want to sell B200 modules or cards. Instead, it might be much more inclined to sell DGX B200 servers with eight Blackwell GPUs or even DGX B200 SuperPODs with 576 B200 GPUs for millions of dollars each. Jensen Huang emphasized that the company would prefer to sell supercomputers or DGX B200 SuperPODS with a lot of hardware and software, which have premium prices. Therefore, the company does not list B200 cards or modules on its website, but only DGB B200 and DGX B200 SuperPOD systems. 
According to knowledgeable sources, Apple plans to maximize the display size in the upcoming iPhone 16 series smartphones using a new ultra-thin bezel technology. Apple will use Border Reduction Structure (BRS) technology to minimize the bezel at the bottom of the display. BRS achieves this by rolling up the internal copper wiring into a more compact package. The company plans to use the bezel-less display technology on all four iPhone 16 models, which are due out in the second half of this year. According to available information, Apple has already tried to apply this technology to the iPhone, but previous attempts were curtailed due to heating problems. But thanks to recent improvements in heat dissipation technology, the company has returned to the idea of introducing BRS. Last year, Apple reduced the bezels on iPhone 15 Pro models using LIPO technology. This reduced the bezels (from 2.2 mm on iPhone 14 models) to 1.5 mm. It is also reported that the new iPhone 16 Pro models will have significantly larger display sizes than the current iPhone 15 Pro versions. It is expected that the iPhone 16 Pro will have a 6.27-inch display (159.31 mm), and the iPhone 16 Pro Max will have a 6.85-inch display (174.06 mm). With the increase in display size, the size of the iPhone body will also increase. The iPhone 16 Pro and 16 Pro Max will be slightly taller and wider than their predecessors. This will increase the internal space for components. For example, iPhone 16 Pro models may receive larger and more durable batteries. The iPhone 16 and iPhone 16 Plus models are expected to remain the same size and match the iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus. However, with the release of the iPhone 17 and iPhone 17 Plus in 2025, Apple is also expected to introduce larger display sizes of 6.27 and 6.86 inches for its standard iPhone models. 
The recent leak of the PS5 Pro (codenamed Trinity) specifications finally dispelled all doubts — Sony’s new console will be released this fall. What exactly can gamers expect from the mid-gen? Specialists of the Digital Foundry channel, known for detailed technical analysis of modern technologies and graphics in games, following the insider Tom Henderson confirmed the leak of internal PS5 Pro documentation. By the way, Sony allegedly conducts an internal investigation and will likely strengthen internal security measures. The editors of Digital Foundry released a special edition of the Direct Special podcast lasting over an hour, in which they analyzed the specifications in detail, shared new data and opinions on the upcoming console update, which was released in late 2020 and recently entered the second half of the life cycle». 
Realme has announced the launch of the realme 12 Pro Series 5G smartphones in Ukraine. This line is aimed at mobile photography enthusiasts. The realme 12 Pro Series 5G smartphones have a 6.7-inch Curved Vision OLED display with a refresh rate of 120 Hz and a peak brightness of 950 nits. The devices provide a screen-to-body ratio of 93%. The display displays a spectrum of 1.07 billion shades and covers 100% of the P3 gamut. The fingerprint scanner is located below the display.
Microsoft is working on an updated version of the Xbox game console. The South Korean Radio Research Agency (RRA) recently certified the new Xbox Development Kit (XDK) for testing. As a rule, such certifications precede the launch of a new product several months in advance. In the case of the Xbox 360, the certification came only a month before its release. 
Despite a lot of speculation, it is not known what kind of console it might be. Various sources and leaks suggest an updated Xbox Series X in all-white color with no disk support or a rumored portable version of the Xbox. It could also be an all-digital Xbox Series X or even an Xbox Series Pro. Only the codename of the new device is known — Xbox Series X «Brooklyn». However, Microsoft is unlikely to announce a new generation console. According to the company, it should be expected no earlier than 2026. The last time Xbox vice president Sarah Bond officially commented on the hardware update was in February: «There are some exciting things coming to the hardware that we’re going to share at this year’s holiday season». The photo above is the current version of XDK. it is not known what the new kit or the new console will look like.
At the end of 2023, Sony ZV-1F was officially introduced in Ukraine, a relatively affordable, compact camcorder that is positioned for beginner bloggers to shoot vlogs, videos on YouTube and other popular platforms. We have already tested the new product from a beginner’s point of view, shot videos and took photos, and now we share our impressions in the review below. Pluses: compact size and light weight; ultra-easy to use «handheld»; wide-angle module; automatic exposure and auto subject tracking; camera takes natural and detailed photos and videos; flip-up touch screen; easy to operate via physical buttons; proprietary app and various accessories; can be used as a webcam; adequate battery life; good price/quality/features ratio. Minuses: fixed lens; occasional problems with autofocus; serious competition from other Sony cameras and smartphones (especially).
Despite its extremely «trimmed» configuration, the new NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 6GB graphics card has become very popular in China. With the discontinuation of the GTX 1650 and GTX 1050, it seems to be a good budget option. NVIDIA’s partner in the country, AIB, is considering raising the price. The newly released NVIDIA RTX 3050 6GB graphics card is becoming popular among budget consumers looking to replace or find an equivalent to GTX cards. Despite hot competition in the sub-$200 segment from the Intel Arc A580/A750 and AMD RX 6600, the card has gained popularity in China as a replacement for the GTX 1650 and GTX 1050, which are very common in the country. The demand allows NVIDIA AIB partners to adjust their prices and increase their margins. On the forums Chinese Board Channels It is also reported that NVIDIA has notified partners to raise the recommended price of the 3050 6GB from $195 to $210. The increase is small but confirms the popularity. But the price increase may give competitors such as Intel Arc A580 and Radeon RX 6600 8GB an advantage. As a reminder, the NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3050 6 GB has a GA107-325 GPU with 2304 computing cores, which is 10% less than the 8 GB model. The processor clock speed is 1470 MHz, which is 17% lower than the 8 GB version. There is 6 GB of video memory on board, which operates via a 96-bit bus, compared to 8 GB of 128-bit in the original model. The video card is about 20% slower than the 8GB model. US retailers are currently selling it at a starting price of $169, but most variants are priced from $179.
At the NVIDIA GPU Technology Conference (GTC) event, Micron demonstrated huge 256GB DDR5-8800 MCR DIMMs. These modules are designed for next-generation servers, in particular, those with Intel Xeon Scalable Granite Rapids processors. Earlier, the company announced that the new 256GB MCR DIMMs are being tested among customers. Micron showed off a large 256GB DDR5-8800 MCRDIMM, but also plans to offer standard-height MCRDIMMs. Both 256GB MCRDIMM modules are based on 32GB DDR5 crystals, but the large one places 80 DRAM chips on both sides of the module, while the standard one uses 2Hi packages, which means they heat up a bit more due to less poor heat dissipation. The module consumes about 20W, which is not bad since Micron’s 128GB DDR5-8000 RDIMM consumes 10W. Multiplexer Combined Ranks (MCR) DIMMs have dual-rank modules that enable both ranks to operate simultaneously by using a special buffer. The buffer allows the two physical ranks to act as if they were two separate modules running in parallel. This achieves double the performance by simultaneously receiving 128 bytes of data per clock cycle. The buffer operates with its own memory controller using the DDR5 protocol, at speeds exceeding the standard, in this case 8800 MT/s. Typically, dual physical rank modules function as a single module — when the CPU (or memory controller) receives data from such a module, it is limited to 64 bytes of data at a time. MCRDIMMs double this figure, increasing performance. Given that Micron demonstrated its MCRDIMMs at the GTC organized by NVIDIA, it is likely that the company is positioning these products for AI servers. Such computers typically require a huge amount of memory for training, and the new high-capacity modules will come in handy. Intel Xeon Scalable Granite Rapid processors have a 12-channel memory subsystem that supports two modules per channel. Using 256GB Micron MCRDIMMs, a Granite Rapid-based server can have 3TB of DDR5 memory with 12 slots and 6TB of DRAM with 24 slots. 
Jez Corden from the podcast Xbox Two claims that Microsoft is working on portable version Xbox console. He also claims that this is not a cloud device, but a real portable console. I know that [Xbox] has prototype handhelds right now… No, it’s not a cloud-based handheld, it’s a fully native Xbox handheld. Corden explained that these are new prototypes, not the old devices that are often mentioned. Prototypes do not necessarily mean that new products are coming to market, but Xbox is still developing a pocket console. Earlier in the official podcast, Xbox President Sarah Bond spoke about the company’s immediate plans: «There’s more to come. There are some interesting things coming out in hardware that we’re going to share over the holidays. We are also investing in the next generation roadmap. What we’re really focused on — is delivering the biggest technical leap you’ve ever seen in a generation of hardware, making it better for players and creators». The Nintendo Switch has sold more than 100 million copies since its launch, and now that Steam Deck, ROG Ally, and even PlayStation Portal have entered the market in the past few years, similar plans for Xbox seem highly likely. The release of portable devices is a good idea to raise funds amid the general stagnation of the console market. It is unknown when Xbox will announce a portable Xbox. Various sources suggest that it may be similar to the Nintendo Switch. 
Recently, we wrote about a new affordable Chinese smartphone for mobile gamers POCO X6 Pro. Now let’s talk about the latest top-of-the-line Xiaomi 14. This compact smartphone is positioned as a photo flagship equipped with super-powerful hardware, so for some, it will undoubtedly be the best solution for their money. However, the price tag of the device is not small, so others will definitely choose the iPhone 15 or competitive Android flagships, which are plentiful. In any case, we have a really cool, well-balanced smartphone that you should know about, and we should tell you about it. Pluses: good equipment; modern compact design; bright LTPO OLED screen at 120 Hz; premium body materials and build quality; IP68 protection against moisture and dust; compact dimensions; powerful Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 processor; cool cameras; Android 14 with HyperOS shell; fast 90W wired charging; adequate price/quality/capabilities ratio. Minuses: the processor throttles a lot; too many proprietary applications and services; sound and vibration response could be better.
Microsoft has introduced new Surface Pro 10 and Surface Laptop 6 devices. They have the same design as the previous models, but now have artificial intelligence features thanks to the new Intel Core Ultra processors. These new devices are designed for business use. Surface Pro 10 and Laptop 6 are equipped with a new Copilot key. The Microsoft Surface Pro 10 tablet is equipped with an Intel Core Ultra 5 135U or Ultra 7 165U processor, up to 64 GB of LPDDR5x RAM, and up to 1 TB of SSD. Microsoft has installed a new webcam with a resolution of 1440p and a wide viewing angle of 114 degrees. It can use Windows Studio effects with Core Ultra NPUs for artificial intelligence workloads. Microsoft Surface Laptop 6 is available in two versions with 13.5 and 15-inch displays. They can be equipped with more powerful Intel Core Ultra 5 135H and Ultra 7 165H processors. The configuration can also include up to 64 GB of RAM and up to 1 TB of storage. The 8GB model has standard Intel graphics, and more powerful Intel Arc graphics core is available for configurations with more memory. The Surface Laptop 6 has a built-in smart card reader, but still lacks an SD card slot. The laptop does not have the improved camera available in the tablet, but is limited to a standard 1080p camera. Microsoft claims that the Surface Pro 10 is 53% faster than the Pro 9 in the 3DMark TimeSpy test, while the Surface Laptop 6 is twice as fast as the previous model. This is mostly due to the more powerful Intel Arc graphics. At the same time, Microsoft has released a new Surface Pro Keyboard with improved keys. They have thicker lettering (bold) and brighter backlighting. All this should make it easier to read from the keyboard and reduce eye strain. This keyboard will be available in English only and exclusively in the United States and Canada. As with other new Windows keyboards, this one has a dedicated Copilot key. The AI chatbot will allow you to turn on accessibility features without having to scroll through menus to find the right option. You can ask Copilot to «turn on closed captioning» or «turn on magnifier», and it will perform this action for you. 
At an event in China, AMD shared plans for an AI PC ecosystem and the next generation of processors. The Beijing Innovation Summit showcased the 8040 series Ryzen Hawk Point processors, 8000G desktop solutions, and AMD’s plans for the next generation of Ryzen processors. Strix Point chips will combine Zen 5, RDNA 3+, and XDNA 2 architectures. AMD CEO Lisa Su started her presentation with the topic of artificial intelligence. She also talked about Hawk Point for a long time and then showed a slide of the Next-Gen AMD Ryzen codenamed Strix Point. The next speaker was David Wong, AMD’s Senior Vice President of GPU Development, who dove a little deeper into the new RDNA 3+ and XDNA 2 architectures. He mainly talked about the current generation Hawk Point. He officially announced the name RDNA 3+, which was previously often referred to as RDNA 3.5 — the series of video chips sometimes identified as GFX115X will be called RDNA 3+. The absence of a version number change can only indicate minor changes to the familiar RDNA 3 architecture in future Hawk Point processors. Regarding XDNA 2, it became known that the new NPU will offer three times the performance of XDNA. Currently, the AMD Ryzen 8040 series delivers 16 NPU TOPS and 39 total TOPS. A quick calculation shows that next-gen Ryzen should deliver over 70 total TOPS. Intel’s Core Ultra series delivers up to 34 TOPS, and Qualcomm’s Snapdragon X Elite chips are supposedly capable of up to 45 TOPS. AMD Strix Point processors will be launched and released later this year. In 2024, they will compete with Intel’s Arrow Lake and Lunar Lake chips, which are expected to provide three times the artificial intelligence performance due to improved GPU and NPU. 
Acer has announced the availability in Ukraine of new Helios Neo series laptops equipped with 14th generation Intel Core processors. The updated lineup now includes not only the Predator Helios Neo 16 (PHN16-72) with a 16-inch screen, but also the Predator Helios Neo 18 (PHN18-71) with 18-inch screens, which are positioned as a full-fledged replacement for a large desktop PC. Both variants offer IPS panels with a resolution of 2560×1600 pixels (16:10 aspect ratio). The Helios Neo displays now display 100% of the DCI-P3 palette rather than sRGB, compared to the previous generation. In addition, the screen refresh rate has increased to 240 Hz, and the matrix response time is 3 ms. The new products support NVIDIA Advanced Optimus and G-SYNC technologies. The Acer Predator Helios Neo 16 and 18 laptops offer 14th-generation Intel Core processors up to Intel Core i9 14900HX, up to 32 GB of DDR5 memory at 5600 MHz, up to 2 TB SSD (in RAID 0), and discrete NVIDIA graphics cards up to GeForce RTX 4070 with a maximum power of 140 W in Turbo mode. These devices are designed for both gaming and digital content creation, as well as for performing resource-intensive tasks, including AI scenarios. The systems include a Wi-Fi 6E module with Intel Killer DoubleShot Pro technology, USB 3.2 connectors, two Type-C Thunderbolt 4 ports, HDMI 2.1 output, and a microSD card slot. There is also a 3.5 mm headphone jack. The body of the new products is made of plastic, and the top cover is made of anodized aluminum with laser engraving. The membrane-type keyboard has four customizable RGB backlight zones and additional keys designed to quickly change modes and launch the PredatorSense application. It allows you to control RGB backlighting, overclocking parameters, fan speed, system status monitoring, and more. Prices and availability: The new Acer Predator Helios Neo 16 and 18 laptops are now available for purchase in Ukraine at the following prices. 
Today we’re going to take a look at the ASUS Zenbook DUO 2024, which, although not a pioneer among dual-screen laptops, may be of interest to the audience of creative professionals. In addition to its unique design, generous configuration, and powerful hardware, the laptop has a few drawbacks and minor nuances that you will have to put up with. We tested the ASUS Zenbook DUO 2024 in working scenarios, measured battery life, heat, power consumption, and tried to find interesting practical conditions for using two displays. Technical specifications of the ASUS Zenbook DUO 2024. Screen OLED 120 Hz. Processor Intel Core Ultra. RAM. Drive. Video card Intel ARC 8-cores. Wireless interfaces Bluetooth. Video output. Card reader. Audio jack. USB Type A. USB Type C. Camera Full HD 1080p. Audio Harman Kardon. Power supply. Battery. Weight. Dimensions. Operating system. The laptop has a double package because in addition to the hero of the review, there are many accessories inside. A large eco-package hides a miniature USB Type C power supply with a removable cable, a case with magnetic fasteners, a classic backpack bag, as well as a stylus, paper documentation, a removable Bluetooth keyboard, and a folding stand. The PSU has a power of 65 W and compact dimensions. You can easily carry it around with you by putting it in your pocket. Of course, ASUS Zenbook DUO 2024 can also be charged from a power bank with any voltage (even the cheapest 5-volt power bank will do). The presence of a stylus is rather mandatory because the two touchscreens hint that the target audience of the laptop is artists and other creative specialties. The stylus is active and recognizes the force of pressure. Without exaggeration, ASUS Zenbook DUO 2024 can be considered an alternative to the iPad Pro if you need a Windows tablet/laptop. ASUS Pen SA203H-MPP2.0 is charged using a USB Type C cable. There are additional keys on the body, as on any stylus that comes with drawing tablets. The backpack and case are of good quality. Although the manufacturer did not ask whether the buyer needed these accessories at his expense, their very presence is not a disadvantage. The bag has three compartments (two inside and one outside), and the case will allow you to carry a laptop with a keyboard and stylus more safely. The book case can also be folded into a stand.
Today we review a new, fourth version of the popular audiophile wireless headphones Sennheiser Momentum True Wireless. We will consider in detail the features of the novelty, its innovations, sound and tell about the experience of using it for several weeks as the main headphones. 
Clouds seem to be gathering over Microsoft’s Xbox business. According to GameIndustry, the Xbox Series X/S in Europe is not doing well with support from the gaming industry. This is evidenced by conversations with a «very well-known» publisher and the indie community. The first signs of concern appeared last year, when some European retailers dropped the Xbox Series X/S altogether. But this year, things have gotten even worse, to the point where publishers are beginning to question whether they should continue to support Xbox. And that’s not the end of the concerns. According to the source, «most» Xbox exclusives will eventually make it to PS5, and Game Pass is receiving less attention, with its popularity largely unchanged. Although such reports can be treated with skepticism, GameIndustry has proven to be a reliable source of gaming industry news in the past. Last month, Microsoft attempted to calm concerns with an Xbox Business update in which they revealed that several older, smaller titles have become multiplatform, but others, such as Starfield, are currently down. In addition, the company promised to continue working on new hardware that should provide «the biggest technical leap in history». Although Microsoft may be planning to release a powerful new console, it won’t matter much without support from developers. If publishers lose interest in placing their games on the platform, this will lead to a lack of interesting content and a decrease in consumer interest. This is exactly what happened to Sega, which was later forced to abandon the hardware.
Smartphones have almost completely replaced proprietary mobile phones without an operating system, but this was not always the case. Moreover, before the advent of Apple iOS and Google Android, the best phones without OS were no less functional and convenient than smartphones, and the most advanced of them were not Nokia or Samsung, but Sony Ericsson. They stood three heads above any other phone of the time, but thanks to what? In this article, we will talk about how Swedish-Japanese phones have been the embodiment of capabilities and quality, the perfect ideal and a model of technology for a long time. 
Nowadays, people think of a phone and a smartphone as the same thing, but it wasn’t always the case. Earlier, most of the sales were accounted for by «cell phones» without OS. The population did not see any obvious advantages of Symbian, Windows Mobile, Palm OS over the functional phones of the early 2000s, and this is partly true. First and foremost, a smartphone has an open file system and supports the installation of programs/games in the internal «working» format. Functionally, this gave serious advantages, because the Java machine was itself a «crutch» and did not work very well. Developers with their hands free could create functional software and games with good graphics and three-dimensional textures. Some of them took 10-50 MB, when a Java game rarely exceeded 1 MB. The situation with programs was similar. This is all well and good, but for a long time people had serious problems with access to programs and games. Even the first generations of iPhones didn’t have a built-in app store, so it wasn’t easy to get the software you needed. Thanks to its ubiquity, finding a Java program or game was much easier. An additional obstacle could be the high threshold for entering the world of smartphones at that time. For example, the owner of a Nokia N82 downloaded the *sis installer of a cool media player, but it wouldn’t open because the damn Symbian certificates were out of date, and a Samsung i780 had a compatibility problem with a *cab file that was created for versions of Windows Pocket PC with other processors. There were a lot of such examples, and old-school fans will understand. In contrast to all these inconvenient push-button smartphones, Sony Ericsson promoted its Java platform, which was more convenient, faster, clearer and no less functional than the top Nokia N-Series solutions, which were also sold at inflated prices. The user received everything he needed, and most importantly, without unnecessary movements, at the touch of a button. Everything should work out of the box, just like we have in the modern Android/iOS market. The difference was huge compared to other Java phones, as we’ll discuss in more detail below.
Scientists have created an extremely fast scientific camera that captures images at an encoding rate of 156.3 THz for individual pixels, equivalent to 156.3 trillion frames per second. The research-grade SCARF (swept-coded aperture real-time femtophotography) camera could lead to a breakthrough in the study of micro-events that appear and disappear too quickly for current scientific sensors. The SCARF camera has already successfully captured ultrafast events such as absorption in a semiconductor and demagnetization of a metal alloy. The research could open up new frontiers in areas such as shock wave mechanics or the development of more effective medical solutions. The research team was led by Professor Jinyan Liang of the Canadian National Institutes of Health Research (INRS). He is an internationally recognized expert in ultrafast photography who built on his discoveries from a separate study 6 years ago. Prof. Liang and his group prepared the study as a new way of looking at ultrafast cameras. Typically, these systems use a sequential approach: they take frames one at a time and stitch them together to observe moving objects. But this approach has limitations. «Its imaging modality allows ultrafast switching of the static encoded aperture without disturbing the ultrafast phenomenon. This enables full sequence encoding rates of up to 156.3 THz for individual pixels on a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera. These results can be obtained in a single frame with adjustable frame rate and spatial scale in both reflection and transmission» modes. In other words, the camera uses the computational image modality to capture spatial information by allowing light to enter its sensor at a slightly different time. Not having to process the spatial data at this point frees up the camera to capture these extremely fast laser pulses at up to 156.3 trillion times per second. The raw image data can then be processed using a computer algorithm that decodes the input data in a staggered fashion, turning each of the trillions of frames into a complete image.
He added that subsidizing hardware is becoming more difficult in today’s world. He is also not sure that «is developing the industry». Additionally, Spencer expressed his disappointment with how closed the ecosystems on consoles are. When asked if there could be other stores like Itch.io and Epic Games Store on Xbox in the future, he answered positively. He recalled Microsoft’s history as a Windows company. When using a PC, no one is restricted to using the most appropriate place to buy games. He added that when running games on PC, you can feel like «an integral part of the gaming ecosystem as a whole». On the other hand, on consoles, the gameplay seems to be fragmented — based on different closed ecosystems. In recent years, Microsoft has been releasing Xbox games on the same day as consoles, as well as on PC. Combined sales of PlayStation and Xbox consoles have remained relatively constant for more than 20 years. Each generation of these two consoles has sold between 170 and 185 million units over their lifetime.
Informant website mobiles presented renders of the Google Pixel 9 phone. Four images video show a black smartphone with flat edges, and this applies not only to the edges of the device itself but also to the camera unit. With the exception of the cameras, Google’s smartphone is very similar to the Apple iPhone. The cameras seem relatively massive and protrude noticeably, an effect enhanced by reflections in the glossy back of the phone. The large indentation may indicate that the device itself will be thinner. This can be achieved by reducing the battery and cooling system, but the Tensor G4 processor is rumored to use Fan out Wafer Level Packaging technology, which not only reduces the thickness of the chip, but also helps to increase thermal stability and improve performance. It is unofficially known that Pixel 9 will have a 6.03″ OLED screen. The smartphone has dimensions of 152.8 x 71.9 x 8.5-12 mm, including the camera protrusion. The power button and volume keys are located on the right side of the flat frame. As for the black color of the phone, which can be seen in the images, there is no other confirmation other than renders. The Pixel 9 is rumored to feature Adaptive Touch, which adjusts the sensitivity of the touchscreen based on environmental parameters and the presence of display protection. Qi2 charging technology is also known to increase wireless charging speeds to 15 watts. Another piece of news was the addition of a new older model, the Pixel 9 Pro XL. Although it seems that the news is good, according to the website WccftechThere is a reason for concern. In the Pixel 8 series, Google made some camera features exclusive to the Pro variant, despite the fact that both phones actually have the same hardware. Some similar manipulation may be done with the Pixel 9 Pro compared to the XL version. It is known that the standard Pixel 9 and the Pro variant will have identical dimensions. This may mean that the Pro XL will be larger. It is not known what hardware changes this will lead to. The new Google Pixel phones are expected to be launched in the fall, and some official details may be revealed at the Google I/O 2024 event.
Website eXputer managed to get a photo a new modification of the Microsoft Xbox game console. The source reports that it is a white Xbox Series X console, which has a digital-only format similar to the Xbox Series S. The console is rumored to go on sale this summer. The photos are not very high quality, but they fully convey the overall design. The front panel lacks an optical drive, while the connectors on the back remain almost the same. According to unofficial reports, the white Xbox Series X has several components updated, including the heatsink, but no major improvements. The console is expected to be priced lower than the existing Xbox X. Earlier, it became known that the Korean regulator had a dev kit for the new Xbox modification in its database, and later information appeared about the preparation of a portable version of the console. However, all this may not help according to the new data, developers lose interest in Microsoft’s gaming console.
Anker Soundcore H30i headphones were introduced in Ukraine at the end of February. We have already tested the new product, and now we share our impressions of listening to music on them, using them in games, on various devices in wireless and wired modes. I should note right away that I did not expect anything from the model at all, but it unexpectedly surprised me. Details, as always, are in the review below. Inside are the headphones themselves, which are stored in a soft wrapper, a USB-C cable for charging, a meter-long AUX cable, and a manual. Technical specifications of Anker Soundcore H30i. Type - Headphones with microphone. Connection method - Wireless. Type of wireless connection - Bluetooth. Possibility of wired connection. Construction	Waybills. Type of acoustic design - Closed. Materials (headband/bowl/ear cushion) - Leatherette/Plastic/Leatherette. Folding body. Design of the emitter - Dynamic. Minimum playback frequency - 20 Hz. Maximum reproduced frequency - 20000 Hz. Resistance	32 ohms. Sensitivity - 96 dB. Diameter of the speakers. Hi-Res certification. Bluetooth specification - A2DP, AVRCP, HSP, HFP. Bluetooth version - Bluetooth 5.3. Bluetooth codecs - AAC, SBC. Power supply element - Battery, 800 mAh. Working hours - Up to 70 hours of playback time. Fast charging.  Cable length. Connecting the cable - Unilateral. Microphone design - Built into the body. Weight. Packaging and equipment. Anker Soundcore H30i comes in a flat, relatively small box.
Earlier launch was planned for March-April, but was postponed to May to finalize the software. According to Mark Gurman of Bloomberg, Apple will release new iPads in early May. A new iPad Pro with OLED display and a faster iPad Air with the first 12.9-inch model in the lineup are expected. The new iPad Pro models will reportedly have OLED displays and run on the new M3 chip, which is already available in several Macs. The tablets will be presented together with the redesigned Apple Pencil and Magic Keyboard. Meanwhile, the iPad Air will allegedly be powered by a new processor — Bloomberg did not specify which one, but given that the current model uses M1 and M3 is potentially reserved for the more expensive Pro, M2 sounds like a good option. The 12.9-inch model will be the first for the iPad Air line (previously, screens did not exceed 10.9 inches). Earlier this month, Gurman said that the new iPads would be released along with MacBook Air with M3 and now says that the release schedule has been pushed back to May to finalize the software and eliminate the shortcomings of «complex new production technologies».
Google intends to provide access to the Gemini AI model for Pixel 8 smartphones. Previously, advanced AI capabilities were only available on the Pixel 8 Pro. As a reminder, both models are equipped with the same Tensor G3 processor, which was designed to accelerate AI performance. Thus, the overall experience with both gadgets should be similar. The Gemini Nano AI model, designed to run locally on personal devices, will be available on Pixel 8 with the next release of the new Pixel Feature Drop. Initially, it will be a developer preview. Google wants to gather feedback and make sure everything works smoothly on a phone with slightly lower specs. This is a rather unexpected change for Google. Initially, the company claimed that the Pixel 8 could not run Gemini on the device due to «hardware limitations», despite the same processor available in the Pro model. The main difference between the two phones is the distribution of RAM. It seems that Google no longer considers this a significant issue for running the AI model on the device. It is expected that with the release of Gemini Nano on Pixel 8, at least two new features will be available to owners of these smartphones. The Recorder app will get an improved Gemini-based call summarization feature that works locally on the device. A similar tool already exists, but requires a network connection. In the future, data will no longer need to be sent to the server. Gboard’s Smart Reply toolkit will offer responses to messages based on the context of the conversation. 
Microsoft and OpenAI are planning to create an unprecedented supercomputer made of millions of specialized chips that could cost up to $100 billion. According to The Information The US-based supercomputer, known as Stargate («Stargate»), will be the centerpiece of a five-step plan to build a series of supercomputers to be built over the next six years. Stargate «Stargate», which will be the fifth phase of the plan, could be launched as early as 2028. Leaders of both companies have allegedly already drawn up plans for a data center that will use OpenAI artificial intelligence. Microsoft is likely to provide funding for the project. Currently, OpenAI uses Microsoft’s data centers for its ChatGPT AI generative system in exchange for Microsoft’s exclusive rights to resell OpenAI’s technology to its customers. The supercomputer could be 100 times more expensive than the largest data centers currently in operation. The project seems to require a huge amount of money to be invested in the industry. Stargate has the potential to far exceed the computing power currently provided by Microsoft for OpenAI, but it may require at least several gigawatts of power. Obtaining the required number of chips is the main factor driving the high price of Stargate. Sufficient energy to power the project can also pose challenges. Companies are considering the possible use of various sources, including nuclear power. Demand for artificial intelligence chips has reached a peak, allowing a few select companies, primarily NVIDIA, to control the market. Altman has expressed frustration with this situation and earlier this year made it clear that he wants to create his own chips. also, the placement and cooling of processors is a problem. It is also unclear where the «Stargate» will be located.
Chinese manufacturer Intellifusion has introduced DeepEyes AI computers with a claimed performance of 48 TOPS, priced at 1000 yuan, or about $140. The use of an older 14 nm process and likely ASIC technology is an opportunity for China to circumvent sanctions and remain competitive in the AI market. The chips use RISC-V and «independent homegrown technology». The Deep Eyes H1 2024 device utilizes the DeepEdge10Max processor to achieve 48 TOPS of training performance. Deep Eyes H2 2024 has a DeepEdge10Pro chip with 24 TOPS, and Deep Eyes 2025 H1 aims to increase performance to 96 TOPS with DeepEdge10Ultra. The company has declared 90% cheaper AI computing that covers 90% of possible scenarios. To meet Microsoft’s stated requirements for AI PCs, computers must have at least 40 TOPS of NPU performance. So, Intellifusion processors seem to be suitable for AI workloads. In comparison, Snapdragon’s X Elite processors will get 40 TOPS. According to Dr. Chen Ning, Chairman of Intellifusion, 80% of companies worldwide will use large AI models in the next three years. The cost of training a large model can be tens of millions (RMB?), and few companies will be able to afford it with current prices. In terms of company adoption of AI, this seems like a very bold statement.
For the release of the fantastic Nokia 7650 is just a few months away (June 29 this year) and we are ready to share with our readers a detailed review of the most functional mobile phone of our time. The review used an engineering sample that is fully consistent with what the company is preparing for consumers this summer. We tested the novelty in work scenarios, evaluated the new Symbian 6.1 operating system, and checked the capabilities of the built-in camera with an incredibly high, until recently unattainable, 307,000-pixel resolution. Pluses: excellent ergonomics and easy navigation; huge, bright screen with high resolution and transflective matrix; good battery life; full-fledged multitasking with easy switching between programs; easy navigation and built-in clipboard; a large number of built-in programs; dynamic phone book and large storage capacity; a high-quality integrated camera; a flagship set of wireless interfaces, including Bluetooth; high-speed Internet and GPRS modem operation; high performance in 3D video games thanks to a 104 MHz processor; almost unlimited system capabilities thanks to support for third-party applications. 
Technical characteristics Nokia 7650: Dimensions	114 × 56 × 26 mm; Weight	156 g; Screen	2.1 inches; TFT 4096 colors; Processor	104 MHz ARM 9; Memory	4 MB; Operating system	Symbian 6.1, Series 60 v1.0 UI; Camera	VGA integrated; Wireless communication	WAP GPRS; Bluetooth 1.1; IrDA; Battery	BLB-2 750 mAh. Start of sales	On June 29 this year; Estimated cost. Equipment: In addition to the phone itself, the manufacturer puts a charger with a usual Nokia plug, a large 750 mAh Nokia BLB-2 battery, a 2.5 mm audio headset with a built-in microphone. A CD, paper documentation and an instruction manual are also included in the box. Most importantly, the camera is already built into the phone and the owner of Nokia 7650 does not need to connect it as an accessory, as is customary for mobile photography enthusiasts. 
The new flagship of the company is made in a slider form factor. The appearance is austere, and the dimensions of the device are considerable. It is unlikely that the Nokia 7650 will be of interest to fragile women, as the device is positioned as a more convenient replacement for the Nokia Communicator series. The opening mechanism works smoothly, and the phone can be opened with one hand. When folded, the user has access to three keys on the front panel and two more on the side. Let’s take a look at the functionality of each of them. A long press of the right side button turns the phone on and off, while a short press allows you to switch between modes and lock the device. The left red button is used to activate voice commands that need to be pre-recorded. This allows you to control the phone by voice, which is useful for drivers. The main navigation element is a five-position joystick placed in a small dimple. The ergonomics of this solution are excellent, and it is easy and convenient to move around the system. Two soft keys are located a little higher, and the menu button with dual functionality is on the left. A short press launches the program menu, and a long press activates the task manager with a list of running programs. You can switch between them without closing them, or close them by pressing the C key at the bottom of the slider. In addition to the standard number pad, Nokia 7650 has buttons for accepting and ending a call, the C button, which is used to delete text and any elements in the system, and the ABC button. It is difficult to overestimate the functionality of the latter because the key allows you to change the input method, switch the language, select text and work with the clipboard, just like on a personal computer. The digital pad is medium-sized, and despite the small buttons, they have good ergonomics and sufficient distance between them. The surface is rubber, not slippery, and dialing is comfortable. There is a pleasant white backlight, which is useful in the dark. The Nokia 7650 has a giant 2.1-inch TFT display with a resolution of 176×208 pixels. 14 square centimeters, 4096 colors and an ultra-high density of 130 PPI do the trick. The screen is phenomenal without exaggeration and behaves perfectly in all conditions. In the standby mode, the screen shows the time, date, and notifications with minimal power consumption, but the Always-on Display function is no longer a surprise in 2002 — it is a mandatory attribute of all modern mobile phones. The smartphone is based on Symbian 6.1 operating system with Nokia Series 60 interface. This is a completely new graphical shell, which the hero of the review was the first to receive. The system is built on the basis of the familiar Symbian EPOC, but adapted to the classic form of a mobile phone. Up to 9 main menu items are displayed on the screen at the same time, where you can move shortcuts, create folders, etc. This gives you unlimited space to organize your workspace, just like on a personal computer or PDA. It’s unusual to see such functionality on a phone, but it’s nice. It is important to note a considerable number of built-in programs and games. The functionality of the smartphone can be briefly described by listing the most important points: Calculator; Converter; Clock; Alarm clock; Calendar; Notebook; Recorder; He is a composer of melodies; Email; Voice mail; Modem mode; Call forwarding; Program Manager; Fast dialing; Voice control; File manager; Gallery;  Camera; Profiles; Contact book; SIM Manager; WAP browser. The list is impressive because just a basic research of the smartphone takes a lot of time, not to mention a detailed study of all the features of Nokia 7650. After the primitive competitors, the hero of the review seems to be a multimedia monster that can do literally anything. Nokia 7650 supports installation of third-party programs in *sis format. Currently, the amount of compatible software is small. But the popularity of Symbian EPOC and the incredible excitement for the world’s first smartphone with a camera give us hope that by the end of the year we will see a whole library of software for Symbian 6.1. Thanks to the trans-reflective matrix, the Nokia 7650 display is not afraid of direct sunlight. It is also worth noting the high-energy efficiency because the device’s battery life is good, which was hard to expect with a large TFT panel. A utility for taking pictures of the screen (enthusiasts call it screenshots) at the system level proved to be useful. The pictures are saved in their original quality in the phone’s internal memory, from where they can be sent via email, MMS, infrared or Bluetooth. Equally interesting is the call recording option. This third-party program allows you to automatically record phone conversations, and this functionality is hard to overestimate. It is a must-have for a certain category of people. To test the gaming capabilities, we downloaded a racing simulator with three-dimensional graphics. The performance of Nokia 7650 is enough to play video games like on personal computers or game consoles. The level of map details is high, and the car has a high-quality 3D model. It is equally important that everything works fast, with a high frame rate. With such features, the hero of the review brings mobile video games to a fundamentally higher level, unattainable for competitors. It is also possible to work with *jar programs because Nokia 7650 has a built-in Java machine, which also shows a decent result. The phone supports 3D graphics both for native Symbian software and for Java, which is more common among lower-end phones. By default, Nokia 7650 has 3 games installed, one of which is a Java application.
The built-in camera has a resolution of 307,000 pixels and is capable of taking pictures in several modes. The module itself is hidden at the top of the slider and is inaccessible when folded. Access to the camera is as quick as possible — by default, the left soft key is used for this purpose. The user has several modes and a choice of image quality. During testing, we used the standard settings. In addition to high resolution, the camera can take night photos, but there is no flash. In fact, this is the only drawback compared to external cameras for modern phones. The memory is enough for many dozen photos, which can be transferred via Bluetooth or infrared. The photo quality is excellent, especially in good light. You’re not ashamed to show these photos to your neighbors who still use film cameras. In any case, Nokia 7650 managed to do the incredible — combine a camera and a phone into one, which no other manufacturer has been able to realize so far. There is no doubt that in the near future, everyone will emphasize this.
In conditions of active use, Nokia 7650 holds a charge for at least two or three days. The battery life of the device was a pleasant surprise, considering the large size of the bright display. Thanks to the 750 mAh battery, the hero of the review will provide stable communication to its owner no less than the weakly functional analogues of competitors. Impressions from using Nokia 7650 are extremely positive because it is the first phone of its kind with incredible potential. Thanks to the Symbian 6.1 Series 60 v1.0 operating system, the user gets unlimited possibilities by installing various software and 3D games. Nokia 7650 review — the world's first cameraphone and the best phone of our time. After the monochrome fun of the Siemens SL45i and the best games on Nokia’s proprietary phones, 3D racing feels like playing on a Sony PlayStation. No phone has ever had such a high performance, and the Nokia 7650 is fast in everything. Thanks to the powerful hardware, the built-in camera is just as fast, and it will surprise even an experienced photographer. The mere presence of an integrated digital camera in a smartphone is a great achievement, and Nokia engineers managed to do it right the first time at a high level. So far, Nokia 7650 is the best multimedia GSM combo of our time, and there is nothing to compare it to.
The Nokia 7650 is scheduled to start selling on June 29, 2002, in a few months. The manufacturer promises a starting price of 700 USD (3800 UAH) which seems to be adequate for this set of characteristics and the complete absence of direct analogs. The Siemens S55 can only be considered a distant and compromise competitor, which has already been announced, but its release is expected only this fall. The phone has a compact size, supports Bluetooth, but does not have a built-in camera and has a smaller screen. The advantage of an external camera, which is promised for the German novelty, is the presence of a flash. The Sony Ericsson T68 has much simpler functionality, but it is now available at a bargain price. It is the low price of the T68 a year after its release that gives it the right to compete for customers because technically, it cannot compete with the Nokia 7650. As the world’s first phone with a built-in camera, the Nokia 7650 is in an incredibly favorable position. It will definitely be in demand among owners of large companies, wealthy photography enthusiasts, and tech gurus who are ready to do anything for the best technology.
Apple calls a product «obsolete» if 7 years have passed since it was last officially distributed for sale — this means that the Apple Store and Apple Authorized Service Providers will no longer offer repair or other hardware service for the device. The company has long maintained a list of its obsolete and vintage products (which now includes the iPhone 6 Plus and iPad Mini 4, respectively) — it is publicly available at this link. Apple released the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus in September 2014 — the smartphones received key updates such as larger screens and support for Apple Pay. The company discontinued the iPhone 6 Plus in September 2016, but the iPhone 6 remained available through resellers in some countries for several years, so it is not yet considered «obsolete». As for the software for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, support ended in 2019 for iOS 13. As for the definition of «vintage» products, which now includes the iPad Mini 4, products are considered to be vintage if they have been distributed for 5 years or more. Apple Stores and Apple Authorized Service Providers continue to offer repairs for such devices for another 2 years, depending on the availability of spare parts.
Asus has announced the launch of ROG Phone 8 Pro smartphone in Ukraine. The manufacturer positions this model not only as a gaming device, but also as a universal premium smartphone for different categories of users: gamers, streamers, content creators, and others. Asus ROG Phone 8 Pro has a new design. The body is 15% thinner than the previous generation of the smartphone without compromising performance. The device is IP68 protected against dust and moisture. The rear panel of ROG Phone 8 Pro has an additional Anime Vision Mini LED display. It consists of 341 LEDs that can be used to display standard or custom animations. Users can also unlock «secret» animation effects by touching their phone to another ROG Phone 8 Pro. The device is equipped with a 6.78-inch AMOLED display with a resolution of 2448 x 1080 pixels and a peak brightness of 2500 cd/m2. The system can automatically adjust the refresh rate from 1 to 120 Hz depending on the current task, and users can select a refresh rate of up to 165 Hz. The polling frequency of the touch interface is 720 Hz. The new device is based on the Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 processor. It also includes 16 GB of LPDDR5X RAM (8533 Mbps) and 512 GB of storage (UFS 4.0). The new Rapid-Cooling Conductor is used to dissipate heat from the processor, and the updated AeroActive Cooler X offers 1.2 times higher efficiency with a smaller footprint. The battery capacity is 5500 mAh. The device has dimensions of 163.8×76.8×8.9 mm and weighs 225 g. The rear panel has a triple camera. It has a main module based on a 50-megapixel Sony IMX766 sensor, complemented by a 6-axis stabilizer, an ultra-wide-angle 13-megapixel module with a 120-degree viewing angle, and a telephoto module with 3x zoom, 32-megapixel sensor and optical stabilization. The front camera has a 32-megapixel sensor. The Asus ROG Phone 8 Pro smartphone with 16/512 GB of memory is already available in Ukraine at a suggested price of UAH 59999. An AeroActive Cooler X cooler is also available, with a suggested price.
This monitor is, without exaggeration, for real champions, because in addition to top-end performance, the MSI MPG 271QRX has a truly champion price. Today, we’re going to take a look at the new 27-inch flagship with Quad HD resolution and an incredible 360Hz OLED matrix. Looking ahead, the monitor has almost no technical shortcomings, but compromises have been found. We tested the new product with a colorimeter, measured power consumption, played a few video games, and are ready to share our experience. Pluses: realistic picture in almost all modes; high refresh rate with low latency; slim and stylish design; excellent viewing angles and high contrast; USB hub, KVM and control of monitor parameters from a computer. Minuses: the swivel mechanism does not have an automatic fixation in the horizontal position; the navigation key in the settings menu is slow; there is no built-in acoustics.
A March survey of Steam users showed a significant increase in the number of owners of NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060 graphics cards. Despite the fact that this model is about 3 years old, it currently dominates the discrete video cards with an indicator of 6.92%. Compared to the previous month, its share increased by 0.75%. The second place was taken by the even older GeForce RTX 2060 model with 4.10%. Meanwhile, the newer RTX 4060 version based on the latest NVIDIA architecture is gradually gaining popularity. Currently, it is used by 2.59% of all Steam users, which is the second largest growth on the platform – by +0.6%. NVIDIA’s xx60 series graphics cards remain the preferred option among gamers, with four models of different generations ranking among the top 10 most popular models. However, the popularity of the GTX 10, GTX 16, and RTX 20 series may have peaked and is now on the decline, especially with NVIDIA discontinuing the GTX 16/10 series. The surge in popularity of the RTX 3060 can be explained by the release of a model with 8 GB of memory. The company has now strengthened its position in the sub-$300 market segment with a wide range of offerings spanning at least two generations (Ampere and Ada Lovelace). At the same time, AMD and Intel graphics cards did not experience a significant increase in popularity. The Radeon RX 580 is the most popular AMD model, but it is found in only 0.83% of all systems tested by Steam. Neither the Radeon RX 7000 nor Intel ARC GPUs are among the top 90 most popular graphics cards on Steam Charts. More from the results research of Steam systems in March 2024 shows that Ukrainian is the 14th most popular language among all users, on par with Italian. It is currently installed on 0.60% of systems. Compared to the previous month, its prevalence decreased by 0.05%. For comparison, Polish took the 10th place with a score of 1.63%, and the figure has slightly increased compared to February. Despite the fact that the populations of Ukraine and Poland are roughly comparable. For game developers and publishers to be interested in creating Ukrainian localizations for their projects, they need to demonstrate a large number of interested users. Therefore, it is important to set the Ukrainian interface language in the OS and Steam.
These PC of the month will be built in a special format that is becoming more and more popular among computer enthusiasts every year — today we will consider miniature builds using mini ITX motherboards. Of course, there are a lot of ready-made mini PCs in stores built because of laptop components, but this is not an option for those who are used to doing everything with their hands. We have prepared «Budget», «Optimal», and «Progressive» computers in compact cases, selecting all components according to their size. 
A cheap configuration that can run all the most popular video games and behaves perfectly in operation, and in a mini format, is a good solution for those who do not need excessive power. They want to free up space on their desktop. There are many options on the market, but it is best to build a budget PC of this format on the AM4 platform. We decided to put a processor in the heart of the computer AMD Ryzen 5 5600G as it is one of the best APUs on the market for the money. You can also take a look at the previous generation models, namely Ryzen 5 4600G and 4650G Pro, if local stores offer them at favorable prices. The difference in power between them is small, so choose what makes the most sense at the time of purchase. The selection of cheap mini ITX motherboards is not huge, so we decided on Biostar B450NH s-AM4 B450. In this price range, you can also find A520 mini ITX boards, which is also an adequate choice if the user does not plan to overclock the integrated AMD Radeon Vega 7 graphics. There is no point in overpaying for memory because the performance gain will be less than the cost difference. For a budget PC, something like DDR4 2x8GB/3200 G.Skill Aegis and as a storage device, the following looks like a good option SSD Kingston M.2 1TB PCIe 4.0 NV2. The combination of 16 GB + 1 TB is definitely enough for most users for everyday tasks. It is not recommended to take a smaller SSD to a miniature computer because the motherboard has only one M2 connector. Body 2E M400-120 120W Black is one of the most affordable in its class, especially considering the included power supply. The chassis measures only 55×200×200 mm and weighs 1 kg. Despite its compactness, it is well ventilated and allows you to install cooling on the processor up to 30 mm high.
Apple hasn’t mentioned it in any way, but the iPhone 12 smartphone has received support for Qi2 wireless charging technology, which it didn’t have before. This happened thanks to an update to the operating system to iOS 17.4, which was released last month. Qi2 — is an enhanced version of the Qi standard for wireless charging that offers faster, more efficient, and adaptive wireless charging for a variety of devices. It allows you to transfer up to 15 watts of power to compatible devices. So, now iPhone 12 owners will be able to fully use Qi2-certified chargers and get full charging power. So now all MagSafe iPhones are Qi2 certified. Previously, iPhones were limited to 7.5W wireless charging unless you used expensive certified MagSafe chargers. The news of Qi2 support on the iPhone 12 came about almost by accident. Macworld published the results of its own tests along with Belkin’s confirmation that its Qi2 chargers support 15W charging on the updated iPhone 12. Anker has since confirmed similar compatibility for its products. However, Apple did not respond to a request for comment. The iPhone 12 was the first Apple smartphone to feature MagSafe technology and has supported 15W MagSafe magnetic charging since its debut in 2020. The iPhone 13 and 14 received Qi2 support as part of the iOS 17.2 update, and the iPhone 15 came with it out of the box.
Ajax Systems has announced the launch of wired IP security cameras announced last year. These devices are designed to provide high-resolution video surveillance while ensuring privacy protection. The new cameras include TurretCam, BulletCam and DomeCam Mini. They can be used both indoors and outdoors. The cameras have an IP65 protection class. Ajax Systems promises easy camera setup and passwordless authentication. It is also reported that the cameras provide infrared illumination at a distance of up to 35 m, and customize the motion detection zone. In addition, users have access to a customized virtual video wall. The cameras are equipped with a built-in digital microphone and an SD memory card slot with a capacity of up to 256 GB. The presented models combine different types of sensors and lenses to meet a variety of video surveillance needs.
Although the storage industry has already widely adopted PCIe 5.0, graphics card manufacturers have not yet released graphics cards with the new interface. However, progress in the development of its next generation has reached PCIe 7.0. PCIe 7.0 boasts 128GB/s data transfer rates and 512GB/s bandwidth for bi-directional interfaces across a 16-lane configuration. It utilizes PAM4 signaling and focuses on improving power efficiency. PCIe 7.0 is backward compatible with all previous generation PCIe specifications. This means that PCIe 7.0 graphics cards or drives are backward compatible all the way back to PCIe 1.0. Characteristics and goals of PCIe 7.0: Data transfer rates of 128 GB/s and up to 512 GB/s bi-directional via x16 configuration; Use of PAM4 signaling (4-level pulse amplitude modulation); Focus on channel and coverage parameters; Reduced latency and increased reliability; Improving energy efficiency; Support for backward compatibility. The consumer graphics card market is still waiting for PCIe 5.0 to be adopted by consumers, but data center accelerators already have this interface. Benchmarks comparing different PCIe specifications show that while the bandwidth doubles with each generation, the benefits for graphics cards are negligible. PCIe 7.0 is expected to be launched in 2025.
In addition to a gaming smartphone POCO X6 Pro and a photo flagship Xiaomi 14 The Chinese giant has also launched mid-range models — Redmi Note 13 and Redmi Note 13 Pro (both 4G versions) on the Ukrainian market. The processor here is simpler than that of POCO, but the cameras and screens are better, especially in the older model. We have already tested the devices, and in the review below we share our impressions, test results, user experience, etc. Pluses: modern stylish and at the same time ascetic design; convenient form factor; wide range of accessories; high-quality cameras; bright 120 Hz AMOLED screens; fingerprint scanner built into the screen; 5000 mAh battery; fast charging support; IP54 protection against moisture and dust; Always-On-Display; stereo sound; 3.5 mm audio jack; support for many audio codecs; adequate price/quality/capabilities ratio. Minuses: Too many proprietary apps and services; weak processors; cameras don't shoot in 4K; mediocre battery life for the battery capacity; glossy body that gets dirty easily; Always-On-Display works only for the first ten seconds; some people will definitely not like the presence of a 3.5mm audio jack. Display, Chipset, Drive, Main camera, Front camera, Connection, Additionally optical fingerprint scanner, protection, stereo sound	optical fingerprint scanner, IP54 moisture protection, stereo sound, Battery fast wired charging fast wired charging, Dimensions Weight. 
Redmi Note 13 and Redmi Note 13 Pro come in medium-sized white boxes. Inside are the phones themselves, documentation, 33W and 67W power supplies, USB-Type-C cables, paper clips to open the SIM card slot, and nice quality cases. In the latter case, these are not the simplest transparent cases, but full-fledged, rather thick covers that match perfectly the colors of the cases and definitely deserve the user’s attention.
Redmi Note 13 and Redmi Note 13 Pro look identical, and the only difference is in the middle. The dimensions of the younger model are 162.3×75.6×8 mm, and it weighs 173.5 grams. The older model has dimensions of 161×74.95×7.98 mm. It weighs — 188 grams. Both devices are protected against moisture and dust according to the IP54 standard. This means that the smartphones are not afraid of rain and splashes, but they should not be immersed in water. The new products have a modern, ascetic design. They have a glossy plastic body with flat edges and rounded corners. On the front panel, we see relatively thin bezels around the screen and a built-in front camera. Behind it are three separate bulging modules of the main camera, a flash, and the Redmi inscription. On the right side of Redmi Note 13 we see the lock button and volume keys. There’s nothing on the right side, but on the top there’s a speaker, an infrared port and a 3.5 mm audio jack. The bottom side has another speaker, a microphone, a USB-C port, and a SIM card slot (either two nano-SIMs or one nano-SIM and one microSD card). On the right side of Redmi Note 13 Pro, we also see the volume keys and the lock button. The SIM card slot (either two nano-SIMs or one nano-SIM and one microSD card) is located on the right side. On the bottom we see a USB-C port, a microphone, and a speaker, and on the top there is an infrared port, a second speaker and a 3.5 mm headphone jack. Redmi Note 13 and Redmi Note 13 Pro are definitely not compact models. These are «shovels», which are comfortable to hold in your hand and do not slip out despite the glossy body. However, you won’t be able to use them with one hand in some scenarios, especially if your fingers are not very long. I would also like to note that the models quickly collect dust and fingerprints, so they should be put in cases right away. 
Redmi Note 13 and Redmi Note 13 Pro have fingerprint scanners built into the screens. The former is protected by tempered Gorilla Glass 5. Redmi Note 13 has a 6.67-inch Full HD+ AMOLED screen (1080×2400 pixels). The pixel density is — 394 ppi, the refresh rate is 120 Hz, and the touch input frequency is 240 Hz. The declared maximum brightness is — 1000 nits. There is support for 8-bit color and PWM dimming. Redmi Note 13 Pro has a 6.69-inch display with AMOLED matrix, the resolution here is also 10802400 pixels, as well as a pixel density of 394 ppi. But the maximum brightness is 1800 nits, the refresh rate is 120 Hz, and the touch input frequency is 240 Hz. Support for HDR10+, Dolby Vision, 12-bit color, and PWM dimming is declared. Both smartphones have dark and light themes, a reading mode, color temperature settings, the ability to change the font and text size, refresh rate settings (automatic, 60 or 120 Hz), and the Always-On-Display feature. However, it does not work all the time, but only for 10 seconds after the screen is locked. The screen of Redmi Note 13 is bright and juicy. The resolution is at a good level for this segment, and the display itself is one of the strengths of the model. The user experience is improved by the increased refresh rate. There is enough brightness for any lighting conditions and even in direct sunlight everything is visible perfectly. However, in this case, the brightness should be at maximum. The display of Redmi Note 13 Pro is even better, with richer colors and detail. This is also one of the main advantages of the model, which is complemented by an increased refresh rate, support for various functions and 12-bit colors. In outdoor conditions under the sun, the brightness is more than enough to use comfortably. The built-in fingerprint scanners are installed close to the bottom bezel. For me, their location is convenient, and the unlocking speed is adequate. Judging by their performance, these are probably the same sensors that work well even with a wet finger, but sometimes they still don’t recognize it.
Redmi Note 13 and Redmi Note 13 Pro have two full-fledged speakers, which means the smartphones have stereo sound. Both models sound loud, but the older one has a more voluminous and clearer sound. As with other new models from the manufacturer, the smartphones support Dolby Atmos technology, have a built-in equalizer, and a variety of sound presets. However, there is no immersive sound with an immersive effect and a sense of space, which is logical for this price category. Both smartphones unexpectedly support a very wide range of audio codecs (AAC, SBC, aptX, aptXHD, aptX Adaptive audio, aptX TWS+ audio, LDAC and LHDC), and there is also a 3.5 mm audio jack. Therefore, if you have good headphones, smartphones will provide relatively adequate sound quality. The vibration motors are probably the same. They are powerful, but, of course, this is far from the flagship level and there are no separate settings for this.
GIGABYTE has announced the launch of new OLED gaming monitors in Ukraine: Aorus CO49DQ, FO32U2P, FO32U2, and FO27Q3. The GIGABYTE Aorus CO49DQ has a 49-inch OLED panel with an aspect ratio of 32:9. Thus, the image area of this model is equal to two 27-inch monitors (with a 16:9 aspect ratio), but in this case the image is completely seamless. The monitor can simultaneously display a picture from a computer and a smartphone or tablet or laptop. The GIGABYTE Aorus CO49DQ has a 5120×1440 pixel panel with a 0.03ms response time. The panel also provides 10-bit color reproduction and 99% DCI-P3 space coverage. Additionally, it supports 144Hz refresh rate with FreeSync Premium Pro, DisplayHDR True Black 400 certification, 400 cd/m² peak brightness, and factory calibration with an individual calibration certificate. The GIGABYTE Aorus FO32U2P and FO32U2 displays are equipped with 31.5-inch OLED panels with a 4K resolution (3840 x 2160 pixels). These models support a refresh rate of 240 Hz and a response time of 0.03 ms. The new models also support FreeSync Premium Pro and offer a contrast ratio of 1500000:1. The devices have a 10-bit panel that can cover 99% of the DCI-P3 color space. The difference between the FO32U2P and FO32U2 models is that the former supports Daisy Chain, which means connecting multiple monitors to each other via DisplayPort inputs and outputs, and each monitor can display a separate image. The GIGABYTE Aorus FO27Q3 27-inch monitor has a 2.5K resolution (2560×1440 pixels) and a 360Hz refresh rate.
Apple Mac expert and journalist Glenn Fleischman wrote about an incomprehensible problem one of his children encountered after trying to download a game from Steam on a MacBook Pro with an M2 chip and an almost full SSD. The drive would not delete unnecessary data. At the same time, various attempts to free up space on the drive failed. Eventually, he had to take drastic measures and completely wipe the SSD for a new installation. This MacBook Pro was equipped with a 1TB SSD and was part of a home network with regular Time Machine backups. First of all, the kids tried emptying the Recycle Bin to free up disk space. This did not help. Glenn Fleischmann’s attempts to empty the Recycle Bin resulted in the message «Operation cannot be completed because the disk is full». Next, Fleischman tried to free up space on the drive using Terminal and Disk Utility. However, even in these cases, the system complained about the lack of space to perform the necessary operations. Restarting, clearing the cache, and manipulating the recovery disk also failed to produce the desired result. As a result, Fleischman resorted to completely wiping the drive and installing MacOS from scratch. Since Time Machine backups had been created, there was hope for data recovery when everything returned to normal. However, the MacOS on the recovered machine found a problem with «’s SMB/Samba-based network mounting procedure for Time Machine» recovery. As a result, no one has found a solution for «. In the end, only a small fraction of the files from the Time Machine backup saved on the external SSD could be restored. In summary, Glenn Fleischman worries how less experienced Mac users will cope with «systemic, cascading failures like this».
The presentation of a new DJI drone is scheduled for April 11, and as this date approaches, more and more information about the expected novelty appears on the web. This time, images of the Avata 2 UAV, RC Motion 3 controller, and Goggles 3 headset have been published online. The published images show the Avata 2 drone with an updated design. It has a smaller camera body and three-blade propellers. It is reported to have a 1/1.3-inch camera sensor, a lens with a viewing angle of 155 degrees, and the ability to shoot 4K video at 60 frames per second. The battery is also rumored to provide 23 minutes of battery life, and charging takes 40 minutes at 65 watts. As for Goggles 3, it has two cameras located on the outside of the headset that provide a first-person view. The marketing materials say that this allows you to «observe your surroundings without taking off your glasses» thanks to the «high-definition micro-OLED display and ultra-low latency transmission». The new headset offers the same two-hour battery life as its predecessor. The RC Motion 3 controller, unlike the standard DJI FPV controller, allows you to control the drone with a combination of hand and joystick movements. Compared to the RC Motion 2 controller, the Motion 3 version has a joystick shifted to the left and the mode button is located closer to the center. The orange lock button looks a bit larger.
Razer has released the Blade 18 gaming laptop equipped with the most powerful mobile processor and graphics card: Intel Core 9-14900HX and NVIDIA RTX 4090. Their work in games can be evaluated on an 18″ UHD+ display with a refresh rate of 200 Hz. The company claims that the Razer Blade 18 is the first laptop in the world to receive the Thunderbolt 5 data transfer interface. The only thing that can upset you is its price, the laptop costs $4799. The Razer Blade 18 configuration supports a choice between two unlocked mobile processors: Core i9-13950HX (up to 5.5 GHz) and Core i9-14900HX (up to 5.8 GHz). Several graphics card options are available: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4060, 4070, 4080, and 4090 (6GB to 16GB of GDDR6 video memory and 3072 to 9728 CUDA cores). The Razer Blade 18 offers three screen options: a 2560 x 1600 pixel display (QHD+) that operates at up to 240 Hz. The QHD+ variant uses Mini-LED technology and refreshes at up to 300 Hz. The most expensive option is the 3840 x 2400 pixel panel (UHD+), which can operate at a frequency of up to 200 Hz. Another distinctive feature of the Blade 18 is Thunderbolt 5 support. Razer says that «the connection of the future» can offer up to 120 Gbps of bandwidth to connect multiple high-resolution displays and transfer data quickly. But you have to look at the configuration carefully: Blade 18s with RTX 4070 or lower graphics cards have Thunderbolt 4. There are 16 GB, 32 GB, and 64 GB of DDR5-5600 RAM available, with the possibility of upgrading to 96 GB. An M.2 solid-state drive of up to 2 TB is installed, and there is one free slot. The user can install up to 8 TB using two 4 TB SSDs. The Razer Blade 18 also has a cooling system with a large evaporative chamber, an ultra-compact GAN charger, an XL glass trackpad, and Razer Chroma RGB backlighting. The laptop is 21.9 mm thick and weighs up to 3.1 kg. The most affordable configuration with a 13th-generation Intel processor costs from $2699, models with a 14th-generation chip cost $3099 to $4799, but still offer the possibility of expanding RAM and permanent memory.
Apple has tentatively scheduled the release of the new iPad Pro and iPad Air during the week of May 6 — timeline clarified Mark Gurman in the latest weekly Power On digest for Bloomberg. From the previous iPad update 18 months have passedand the upcoming update promises to be one of the largest in the history of Apple’s tablet lineup. In particular, we expect new 11-inch and 13-inch iPad Pro with OLED screens, 12.9-inch iPad Air, as well as updated Magic Keyboard and Apple Pencil accessories. In addition to brighter and more contrasty OLED displays (instead of mini-LED), as in the latest iPhones, the new iPad Pro will have a more powerful M3 processor and a redesign — in particular, the new models will be even thinner (I wonder if this will turn into a another bandwagon), and the front camera will move to the side frame to make it easier to take horizontal photos. Although expected, the news is still less pleasant — it is expected that this year’s iPad Pro update will not come without a price increase. This fact is confirmed by Mark Gurman in his new column, although there are no specifics yet. Suddenly, in the United States, prices for the current-generation 11-inch iPad Pro start at $799, and the 12.9-inch iPad Pro starts at $1099. The new 12.9-inch iPad Air will be a more affordable alternative despite its larger screen. It is not yet known whether it will receive a more powerful processor — M2 or M3, or whether it will remain on M1 from 2020. As for the new accessories, according to references in the iPadOS beta code, the updated Pencil stylus will support a new «squeeze» gesture that will be used for various quick actions, such as adding stickers. At the same time, the updated Magic Keyboard for iPad Pro will make the tablet look even more like a laptop with a larger trackpad and a sturdy aluminum frame. Updates to the base iPad and iPad mini are due later this year — according to Gourmet, nothing major is expected, just a few minor improvements and a more powerful processor in the Mini.
Gigabyte Ukraine has announced the launch of G6X and Aorus 16X gaming laptops — these are 16-inch modifications of the 2024 model year that boast not only modern «hardware» but also  software optimizations. There are special modes for digital content creators and to extend battery life. The company also mentions a dynamic switch between the built-in and discrete graphics card that adds up to 40 minutes of battery life. Of the two, the Gigabyte Aorus 16X — is a bit more powerful and interesting in terms of features. In the top configuration, it combines a Core i9-14900HX processor (24 cores, 8P/16E) and an Nvidia RTX 4070 discrete video adapter with an increased 140-watt TGP level. There are also variants with Core i7-14650HX (16 cores, 8P/8E) or Core i7-13650HX (14 cores, 6P/8E) and RTX 4060. Cooling is handled by the proprietary Windforce Infinity cooling system with two massive fans, five heatpipes, and a radiator with many thin (0.1 mm) fins, which is capable of dissipating up to 170 watts of heat. The amount of DDR5-4800 RAM can reach 64 GB, and the storage subsystem is represented by two M.2 NVMe drives with PCI Express 4.0 x4 interface. The 16-inch Aorus 16X display with a resolution of 2560×1600 pixels supports a refresh rate of 165 Hz, a brightness margin of up to 400 nits and coverage of 100% of the sRGB color palette. It also has Pantone Validated certification and G-Sync support. The keyboard has a three-zone RGB backlight and a separate hotkey. The laptop also includes a Wi-Fi 7|Bluetooth 5.4 wireless module (supports networks with a frequency of up to 6 GHz, channel width of up to 320 MHz, 4096 QAM modulation, 2×2 antenna configuration), a gigabit network interface, Thunderbolt 4, HDMI 2.1 ports, and a 99 Wh battery with fast charging capability from a 240 W power supply or from a 100 W Type-C (USB PowerDelivery 3.0). The dimensions of the device are 356x254x20~27 mm with a weight of 2.3 kg. Externally, the Aorus G6X model does not differ from the Aorus 16X, but internally there are differences — its characteristics are more modest. It’s based on a Core i7-13650HX processor (14 cores, 6P/8E), complemented by a discrete RTX 4060 or RTX 4050 graphics card with a maximum 105W TGP, dual-channel DDR5-4800 MHz RAM, and two PCIe Gen4x4 M.2 slots. The cooling system here is designed to dissipate up to 135 watts of thermal power. The Aorus G6X has a 16-inch screen with a refresh rate of 165 Hz, but a lower pixel resolution (1920×1200) and lower peak brightness (250 nits). Network capabilities are represented by Ethernet and Wi-Fi 6E (2×2 antenna configuration). Battery capacity — 73 Wh. The device can be charged in 30 minutes thanks to a 180W power supply, and PowerDelivery 3.0 with a capacity of up to 100W is also supported. The laptop has dimensions of 361x259x25.1~28.9 mm and weighs — 2.5 kg. Both laptops are already available for purchase in Ukrainian stores: prices for the Aorus 16X start at UAH 62,999, and the Aorus G6X — at UAH 52,999.
The inexpensive and versatile Motorola Moto G24 has brought mixed, but mostly positive, impressions, which we are ready to share with our readers. In this review, we will tell you in detail about the new product, test the device in typical work scenarios and games, evaluate the camera capabilities, measure the battery life, look for the main drawbacks, and compare it with competitors. Pluses: clean Android 14 operating system with continuous updates; camera with little interference from algorithms realistically reproduces colors and also takes good macro shots; good battery life in games and under any high load; a separate micro SD card slot and a 3.5 mm headphone jack; low cost and large amount of ROM. Minuses: fading of screen colors at an angle, which is especially noticeable in the sun; the processor throttles more than competitors; the speed of the built-in storage drops sharply when full; the camera takes poor pictures at night.
The device comes standard with a 20W charger, a USB Type C cable, and a protective case. In addition, there is paper documentation and a paper clip to open the SIM card slot. The charger delivers up to 12 V, so it can be used to power a conditional router or something like that. The case is of low quality, as simple as possible, but it’s good to have it. It will protect the phone from careless handling by a sloppy owner.
Motorola Moto G24 has a classic shape with a small front camera hole right in the center at the top. The body is plastic, there is almost no protection against moisture (IP 52), the bezels around the display are large, the edges are slightly rounded. The phone feels good in the hand, although it seems surprisingly thick with the case. Mechanical controls are located on the right side. The lock key has a fingerprint scanner, and if this does not suit you, you can use face recognition technology. Above is the volume button. On the top panel there is a 3.5 mm headphone jack, and a USB Type C connector version 2.0 on the bottom. You cannot transmit video signals through it. The camera modules are located in the corner and protrude slightly. In general, the look is more than standard for a 2024 phone, and the build quality does not raise any complaints. The model is available in three colors. The vibration motor is weak, the speaker is one, loud, not very realistic. The sound lacks low frequencies, but you can’t complain about the quality. Competitors do not offer anything fundamentally better. The left side contains only a slot for memory cards and SIM cards. You can install two SIM + micro SD up to 512 GB at the same time.
The screen has a diagonal of 6.56″, a resolution of 1612×720p, 90 Hz and is made using IPS technology. The pixel density is the least of the complaints, as small fonts are smooth at a healthy distance (not the way mobile esports players play) and with 100% vision. Out of the box, the manufacturer sets the wrong color palette, but this can be changed in the settings. Immediately remove the disgusting «saturated» checkbox and set «natural» colors and the image becomes much more beautiful. The minimum brightness is very low, which allows you to use the phone at night. In general, the eyes do not get tired of the display with automatic backlight adjustment. The matrix is soft and pleasant, especially against the background of flagship OLEDs, but there are a few nuances that are important to know. Not surprisingly, the brightness margin for a budget phone is low, but the viewing angles exacerbate this problem. At a right angle, the picture is saturated even during the day in the sun, but if you turn the phone a little, everything becomes gray and dull. The display works in 60 or 90 Hz mode, and there is also a smart mode with automatic refresh rate switching. This smoothness cannot be seen everywhere because the Android system always sins by spoiling the animation with an unexpected freeze.
Xiaomi 14 Ultra smartphone is equipped with a 6.73-inch AMOLED display with a resolution of 3200×1440 pixels and a density of 522 ppi. The screen is rounded on all sides and protected by Xiaomi Shield Glass. It supports a refresh rate of up to 120 Hz and provides a peak brightness of up to 3000 nits. The device is powered by a top-of-the-line Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 processor, 16 GB of RAM, and 512 GB of internal flash storage. On the back of the smartphone is a large round camera unit. All of them have 50-megapixel sensors. The main module has a 1-inch Sony LYT-900 sensor and a stepless variable aperture with a range from f/1.63 to f/4.0. Users also have access to a 3.2x optical zoom telephoto module, a 5x optical zoom periscope telephoto module, and an ultra-wide-angle module with a 122-degree viewing angle. The camera is capable of recording 8K UHD video (7680×4320 pixels). The front camera has a 32-megapixel sensor. The battery capacity of Xiaomi 14 Ultra is 5000 mAh. It supports 90W fast wired charging and 80W fast wireless charging. The device also offers an infrared emitter and IP68 dust and moisture protection. The device has dimensions of 161.4×75.3×9.2 mm and weighs 219.8 g. The new device runs on Xiaomi HyperOS operating system based on Android 14. The recommended price of Xiaomi 14 Ultra is UAH 59,999. Until April 15, the new product can be ordered at a special price of UAH 54,999.
Logitech has announced the launch of a new gaming keyboard under the Logitech G brand in Ukraine. Logitech G PRO X 60 LIGHTSPEED is a compact professional-grade keyboard designed for eSports players. Logitech G PRO X 60 LIGHTSPEED is designed in a 60% form factor, which allows for more space for dynamic mouse movements. Thanks to KEYCONTROL technology, gamers can customize the keyboard to their own needs and not feel the lack of keys. KEYCONTROL allows you to assign up to 15 options per key. In combination with the advanced G-SHIFT function, which can be assigned to virtually any key, players can activate a new key layout. The Logitech G PRO X 60 LIGHTSPEED keyboard is available with GX Optical switches, which provide faster response than standard mechanical switches. LIGHTSPEED wireless technology is used to connect to the gaming system. It provides high data transfer speeds and protection against external radio frequency interference from other devices that can be used in large numbers at esports tournaments: smartphones, studio cameras, sound systems, etc. The Logitech G PRO X 60 LIGHTSPEED wireless gaming keyboard will be available in Ukraine in April in black and white colors, and later in Magenta. Its price is UAH 7299.
